
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.009 Aggressive agency collection activity.

(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will aggressively collect all debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, GSA. Collection activities will be undertaken promptly, including letters, telephone calls, electronic mail (e-mail), and Internet inquiries, with follow-up action taken as necessary.

(b) Debts referred or transferred to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), will be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.

(c) GSA will cooperate with other agencies in their debt collection activities.

(d) GSA will consider referring debts that are less than 180 days delinquent to Treasury or to Treasury-designated "debt collection centers" to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Treasury is a debt collection center, is authorized to designate other Federal agencies as debt collection centers based on their performance in collecting delinquent debts, and may withdraw such designations. Referrals to debt collection centers shall be at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, the Secretary. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.

(e) GSA will transfer to the Secretary any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so the Secretary may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. See 31 CFR 285.12 (Transfer of Debts to Treasury for Collection). This requirement does not apply to any debt that-

(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;

(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;

(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary;

(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary (see paragraph (d) of this section);

(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent;

(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. GSA may request the Secretary to exempt specific classes of debts;

(7) Is in bankruptcy (see ยง 105-55.010(h));

(8) Involves a deceased debtor;

(9) Is owed to GSA by a foreign government; or

(10) Is in an administrative appeals process, until the process is complete and the amount due is set.

(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and will be added to the debt as an administrative cost (see ยง 105-55.016).
