
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.011 Collection by administrative offset.
###### Cecile Industries, Inc.,Cheney,

(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth inv.995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or

(C) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, GSA first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, GSA will give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and will promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.

(iii) When GSA previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (see, e.g., ยง 105-55.010), the Agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.

(5) When referring delinquent debts to the Secretary, GSA will certify, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, that-

(i) The debt(s) is (are) past due and legally enforceable; and

(ii) GSA has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and Agency regulations.

(6) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. The Secretary shall exempt payments under means-tested programs from centralized administrative offset when requested in writing by the Administrator. Also, the Secretary may exempt other classes of payments from centralized offset upon the written request of the Administrator.
