
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.011 Collection by administrative offset.
###### Non-centralized administrative offset.

(c)(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that GSA conducts, at the Agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with another agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable non-tax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, GSA may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for GSA to request the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.

(2) Such offsets will occur only after-

(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and

(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from GSA that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that GSA has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.

(3) Payment authorizing agencies will comply with offset requests by GSA to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the program of the payment authorizing agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law.

(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, GSA will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
