
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.013 Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.

(a) Unless waived by the Administrator, the General Services Administration (GSA) will not extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a non-tax debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and re-delegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of GSA. GSA may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. The Secretary may exempt classes of debts from this prohibition and has prescribed standards defining when a "delinquency" is "resolved" for purposes of this prohibition. See 31 CFR 285.13.

(b) In non-bankruptcy cases, GSA, when seeking the collection of statutory penalties, forfeitures, or other types of claims, will consider the suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay such a debt in accordance with GSA regulations or governing procedures. The debtor will be advised in GSA's written demand for payment of the Agency's ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges. If GSA makes, guarantees, insures, acquires, or participates in loans, the Agency will consider suspending or disqualifying any lender, contractor, or broker from doing further business with the Agency or engaging in programs sponsored by the Agency if such lender, contractor, or broker fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time or if such lender, contractor, or broker has been suspended, debarred, or disqualified from participation in a program or activity by another Federal agency. The failure of any surety to honor its obligations in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9305 will be reported to the Treasury. The Treasury will forward notification to all interested agencies that a surety's certificate of authority to do business with the Government has been revoked by the Treasury.

(c) The suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or privileges also may extend to GSA programs or activities administered by the states on behalf of GSA, to the extent they affect GSA's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors.

(d) In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of GSA's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges, the Agency will ascertain the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 362 and 525, which may restrict such action.
