
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.019 Compromise of claims.

(a) The standards set forth in this section apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. The General Services Administration (GSA) may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the Agency when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General. The Administrator may designate other GSA officials to exercise the authorities in this section.

(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the Department of Justice. GSA will evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in ยง 105-55.020. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the Agency, GSA will refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice using a Claims Collection Litigation Report. The referral will include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. Justice Department approval is not required if GSA rejects a compromise offer.
