
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### § 105-55.031 Prompt referral to the Department of Justice.

(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will promptly refer to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with § 105-55.009 and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with §§ 105-55.027 and 105-55.028. GSA may refer those debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the Agency. Debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, will be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at DOJ, Washington, DC. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000, or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, will be referred to DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the Claims Collection Litigation Report instructions. Debts will be referred as early as possible, consistent with aggressive GSA collection activity and the observance of the standards contained in this part, and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. GSA will make every effort to refer delinquent debts to DOJ for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, GSA will make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to DOJ for litigation within one year from the date the loan was presented to the Agency for payment or re-insurance.

(b) DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to it pursuant to this section. GSA, as the referring agency, will immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt at the time of the referral of that debt to DOJ. GSA will advise DOJ of the collection activities which have been utilized to date, and their result. GSA will refrain from having any contact with the debtor and will direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to DOJ, except as otherwise agreed between GSA and DOJ. GSA will immediately notify DOJ of any payments credited by the Agency to the debtor's account after referral of a debt under this section. DOJ will notify GSA of any payments it receives from the debtor.
