
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-56 - SALARY OFFSET FOR INDEBTEDNESS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Salary Offset of General Services Administration Employees
###### ยง 105-56.002 Excluded debts or claims.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(a) Debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301), or the tariff laws of the United States.

(b) Any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. Debt collection procedures under other statutory authorities, however, must be consistent with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards, defined at paragraph (h) of ยง 105-56.003.

(c) An employee election of coverage or of a change of coverage under a Federal benefits program that requires periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. However, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over more than four pay periods, the procedures under ยง 105-56.004 of this subpart will apply.

(d) Routine adjustment in pay or allowances that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of the adjustment, or as soon after as possible, the employee is provided written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment.

(e) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of the adjustment, or as soon after as possible, the employee is given written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting the adjustment.

(f) Debts or claims arising from the accrual of unpaid Health Benefits Insurance (HBI) premiums as the result of an employee's election to continue health insurance coverage during periods of leave without pay (LWOP), or when pay is insufficient to cover premiums. Debt collection procedures for unpaid HBI are covered under 5 CFR part 890, subpart E.
