
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-56 - SALARY OFFSET FOR INDEBTEDNESS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Salary Offset of General Services Administration Employees
###### ยง 105-56.013 Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
####### When another agency is the creditor agency.

(b)(1) GSA may use salary offset against one of its employees or cross-serviced agency employees who is indebted to another agency if requested to do so by that agency. Any such request must be accompanied by a certification from the requesting agency that the person owes the debt, the amount of the debt and that the employee has been given the procedural rights required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.

(2) The creditor agency must advise GSA of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the beginning date of the first installment if it is not the next established pay period.

(3) If GSA receives an improperly completed request, the creditor agency will be requested to supply the required information before any salary offset begins.

(4) If the claim procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been properly completed, deductions will begin on the next established pay period unless a different period is requested by the creditor agency.

(5) GSA will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determinations with respect to the amount and/or validity of the debt as stated in the debt claim certification.

(6) If the employee begins separation action before GSA collects the total debt due the creditor agency, the following actions will be taken:

(i) When possible, the balance owed the creditor agency will be liquidated from subsequent payments of any nature due the employee from GSA in accordance with 41 CFR part 105-55.011;

(ii) If the total amount of the debt cannot be recovered, GSA will certify the total amount collected to the creditor agency and the employee;

(iii) If GSA is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, such information will be provided to the creditor agency so a certified claim can be made against the payments.

(7) If the employee transfers to another Federal agency before GSA collects the total amount due the creditor agency, GSA will certify the total amount collected to the creditor agency and the employee. It is the responsibility of the creditor agency to ensure that collection action is resumed by the new employing agency.
