
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-56 - SALARY OFFSET FOR INDEBTEDNESS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Centralized Salary Offset (CSO) Procedures - GSA as Paying Agency
###### ยง 105-56.026 GSA participation.

(a) As required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), creditor agencies must participate at least annually in centralized salary offset computer matching. To meet this requirement, creditor agencies will notify FMS of all past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for more than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset, as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Additionally, creditor agencies may notify FMS of past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for less than 180 days for purposes of administrative offset.

(b) Prior to submitting a debt to FMS for purposes of collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, creditor agencies will provide written certification to FMS that-

(1) The debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted to FMS and that the creditor agency will ensure that collections (other than collections through offset) are properly credited to the debt;

(2) Except in the case of a judgment debt or as otherwise allowed by law, the debt is referred for offset within ten years after the creditor agency's right of action accrues;

(3) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (administrative offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring the creditor agency to provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a review of the debt; and

(4) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring the creditor agency to provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a hearing.

(c) FMS may waive the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section as a prerequisite to submitting the debt to FMS. If FMS waives the certification requirement, before an offset occurs, the creditor agency will provide the Federal employee with the notices and opportunities for a hearing as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations, and will certify to FMS that the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations have been met.

(d) The creditor agency will notify FMS immediately of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account, other than credits for amounts collected by offset, after submission of the debt to FMS. The creditor agency will notify FMS once the debt is paid in its entirety. The creditor agency will also notify FMS immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
