
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-57 - ADMINISTRATION WAGE GARNISHMENT
##### ยง 105-57.001 Purpose, authority and scope.
###### Scope.

(c)(1) This part applies to any GSA program that gives rise to a delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States and that pursues recovery of such debt.

(2) This part will apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.

(3) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with applicable law. See, for example, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.

(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this part does not preclude GSA from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States.

GSA may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment.

(5) This part does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other applicable laws. GSA standards and procedures for offsetting Federal wage payments are stated in 41 CFR part 105-56.

(6) Nothing in this part requires GSA to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
