
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-57 - ADMINISTRATION WAGE GARNISHMENT
##### ยง 105-57.002 Definitions.
###### Financial hardship

(i)means an inability to meet basic living expenses for goods and services necessary for the survival of the debtor and his or her spouse and dependents. See ยง 105-57.010 of this part.

(j) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the term "Administrator" refers to the Administrator of General Services or the Administrator's delegate.

(k) For the purposes of the standards in this part, the terms "claim" and "debt" are synonymous and interchangeable.

They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by GSA to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency, from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures and all other similar sources, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms "claim" and "debt" include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(l) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, the terms "GSA" and "Agency" are synonymous and interchangeable.

(m) For the purposes of the standards in this part, unless otherwise stated, "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
