
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-57 - ADMINISTRATION WAGE GARNISHMENT
##### ยง 105-57.005 Hearing.
###### Burden of proof.

(f)(1) GSA will have the burden of establishing the existence and/or amount of the debt.

(2) Thereafter, if the debtor disputes the existence and/or amount of the debt, the debtor must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the debtor may present evidence that the terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the debtor, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.

(g) The hearing official will arrange and maintain a written transcript of any hearing provided under this section. The transcript will be made available to either party in the event of an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701 through 706. All charges associated with the taking of the transcript will be the responsibility of GSA. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing; however, witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.

(h) The hearing official will issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, as soon as practicable, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the request for such hearing was received by GSA. If the hearing official is unable to provide the debtor with a hearing and render a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing-

(1) GSA will not issue a withholding order until the hearing is held and a decision rendered; or

(2) If GSA had previously issued a withholding order to the debtor's employer, the Agency will suspend the withholding order beginning on the 61st day after the receipt of the hearing request and continuing until a hearing is held and a decision is rendered.

(i) The written decision will include-

(1) A summary of the facts presented;

(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis and conclusions; and

(3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
