
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-60 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY RECORDS AND INFORMATIONAL MATERALS
##### Subpart D - Responding to Requests
###### ยง 105-60.306 Expedited processing.

(a) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. In order to qualify for consideration for expedited processing, the request shall reasonably describe the records sought. Expedited requests should be described in sufficient detail to facilitate expedited processing.

(b) A requester who seeks expedited processing shall submit a statement with their FOIA request, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. As a matter of administrative discretion, GSA may waive the formal certification requirement.

(c) GSA may process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:

(1) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;

(2) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information; or

(3) The loss of substantial due process rights; or

(4) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the Government's integrity that affect public confidence.

(d) GSA shall notify the requester within 10 calendar days of its receipt of a request for expedited processing and of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, GSA shall act on any appeal of that decision within 3 business days.
