
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-60 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY RECORDS AND INFORMATIONAL MATERALS
##### Subpart J - Fees
###### ยง 105-60.802 Fees to be charged.
####### Search fees.

(a)(1) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. GSA shall charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the rules and restrictions enumerated in this subpart. GSA may properly charge for time spent searching even if the GSA FOIA Requester Service Center does not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(2) For each half hour (30 minutes) spent by GSA personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, a $24.50 fee shall be assessed per the guidelines of the fee schedule enumerated in ยง 105-60.804 of this subpart.

(3) GSA shall charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. GSA shall notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester shall agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.

(4) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by GSA at a Federal records center operated by the NARA, GSA shall charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
