
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-60 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY RECORDS AND INFORMATIONAL MATERALS
##### Subpart J - Fees
###### ยง 105-60.802 Fees to be charged.
####### Duplication fees.

(b)(1) GSA shall charge duplication fees to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of ยง 105-60.803 of this subpart. GSA shall honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where the agency can readily reproduce it in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, GSA shall provide one copy per request at the cost of $0.10 per copy. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, GSA shall charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time.

(2) Where paper documents shall be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, GSA shall charge the direct costs.

(3) GSA determines the standard fee for duplication of records as follows:

(i) Per copy of each page (not larger than 8.5 x 14 inches) reproduced by photocopy or similar means (includes costs of personnel and equipment)-U.S. $0.10.

(ii) Per copy prepared by any other method of duplication-actual direct cost of production.
