
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-60 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF AGENCY RECORDS AND INFORMATIONAL MATERALS
##### Subpart J - Fees
###### ยง 105-60.803 Restrictions on charging fees.

(a) When GSA determines that a requester is an educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and that the records are not sought for commercial use, GSA shall not charge search fees.

(b) If GSA fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request for agency records under FOIA, it will not charge search fees, or in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (a) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. GSA will charge duplication fees in accordance with ยง 105-60.802(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart.

(1) If GSA has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by FOIA, apply and the agency provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 business days.

(2) If GSA has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and that more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, GSA may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. GSA shall have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with FOIA and GSA shall have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the component may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.

(3) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

(c) No search or review fees shall be charged for a half-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.

(d) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, GSA shall provide without charge:

(1) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and

(2) The first 2 hours of search time.

(e) No fee shall be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first 2 hours of search, is equal to or less than $49.00.
