
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-64 - GSA PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart 105-64.6 - Establishing or Revising Systems of Records in GSA
###### ยง 105-64.601 Procedures for establishing system of records.

The following procedures apply to any proposed new or revised system of records:

(a) Before establishing a new or revising an existing system of records, the system manager, with the concurrence of the appropriate Head of Service or Staff Office, will provide to the GSA Privacy Act Officer a proposal describing and justifying the new system or revision.

(b) A Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) will be filled out to determine if a system notice needs to be completed.

(c) The GSA Privacy Act Officer will work with the program office to create the draft system of notice document.

(d) The GSA Privacy Office will work with various offices to take the draft system notice through the concurrence process.

(e) The GSA Privacy Act Officer will publish in thea notice of intent to establish or revise the system of records at least 30 calendar days before the planned system establishment or revision date.

(f) The new or revised system becomes effective 30 days after the notice is published in theunless submitted comments result in a revision to the notice, in which case, a new revised notice will be issued.

(g) When publishing a new system notice letters will be sent to the Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and the Docket Library Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget.
