
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-204 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SUPPLY CONTRACTS
##### Subpart B - General Safety and Health Standards
###### ยง 50-204.3 Material handling and storage.

(a) Where mechanical handling equipment is used, sufficient safe clearances shall be allowed for aisles, at loading docks, through doorways and wherever turns or passage must be made. Aisles and passageways shall be kept clear and in good repair, with no obstruction across or in aisles that could create a hazard. Permanent aisles and passageways shall be appropriately marked.

(b) Storage of material shall not create a hazard. Bags, containers, bundles, etc. stored in tiers shall be stacked, blocked, interlocked and limited in height so that they are stable and secure against sliding or collapse.

(c) Storage areas shall be kept free from accumulation of materials that constitute hazards from tripping, fire, explosion, or pest harborage. Vegetation control will be exercised when necessary.

(d) Proper drainage shall be provided.

(e) Clearance signs to warn of clearance limits shall be provided.

(f) Derail and/or bumper blocks shall be provided on spur railroad tracks where a rolling car could contact other cars being worked, enter a building, work or traffic area.

(g) Covers and/or guard rails shall be provided to protect personnel from the hazards of open pits, tanks, vats, ditches, etc.
