
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-70 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986
##### ยง 105-70.046 Compromise or settlement.

(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.

(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.

(c) The Authority Head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under ยง 105-70.042 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under ยง 105-70.043.

(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under ยง 105-70.042 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.

(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Authority Head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Authority Head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.

(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
