
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-71 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
##### Subpart 105-71.14 - Post-Award Requirements/Reports, Records, Retention, and Enforcement
###### § 105-71.141 Financial reporting.
####### Outlay report and request for reimbursement for construction programs.

(e)(1) Grants that support construction activities paid by reimbursement method.

(i) Requests for reimbursement under construction grants will be submitted on Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. Federal agencies may, however, prescribe the Request for Advance or Reimbursement form, specified in § 105-71.141(d), instead of this form.

(ii) The frequency for submitting reimbursement requests is treated in § 105-71.141(b)(3).

(2) Grants that support construction activities paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advance.

(i) When a construction grant is paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advances, the grantee will report its outlays to the Federal agency using Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. The Federal agency will provide any necessary special instruction. However, frequency and due date shall be governed by § 105-71.141(b) (3) and (4).

(ii) When a construction grant is paid by Treasury check advances based on periodic requests from the grantee, the advances will be requested on the form specified in § 105-71.141(d).

(iii) The Federal agency may substitute the Financial Status Report specified in § 105-71.141(b) for the Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.
