
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 60 - Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor
#### PART 60-3 - UNIFORM GUIDELINES ON EMPLOYEE SELECTION PROCEDURES (1978)
##### Technical Standards
###### ยง 60-3.14 Technical standards for validity studies.
####### Criterion measures.

(3)Proper safeguards should be taken to insure that scores on selection procedures do not enter into any judgments of employee adequacy that are to be used as criterion measures. Whatever criteria are used should represent important or critical work behavior(s) or work outcomes. Certain criteria may be used without a full job analysis if the user can show the importance of the criteria to the particular employment context. These criteria include but are not limited to production rate, error rate, tardiness, absenteeism, and length of service. A standardized rating of overall work performance may be used where a study of the job shows that it is an appropriate criterion. Where performance in training is used as a criterion, success in training should be properly measured and the relevance of the training should be shown either through a comparsion of the content of the training program with the critical or important work behavior(s) of the job(s), or through a demonstration of the relationship between measures of performance in training and measures of job performance. Measures of relative success in training include but are not limited to instructor evaluations, performance samples, or tests. Criterion measures consisting of paper and pencil tests will be closely reviewed for job relevance.
