
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.1 - Regulation System
####### ยง 109-1.106-50 Applicability of FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR.

(a) The FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply to all direct operations.

(b) The DOE-PMR does not apply to facilities and activities conducted under Executive Order 12344 (Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program) and Public Law 98-525.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in the appropriate part or subpart, the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply to designated contractors.

(d) The Procurement Executive or head of a contracting activity may designate contractors other than designated contractors to which the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply.

(e) Program Secretarial Officers and other DOE elements are responsible to identify the contracts that involve the life-cycle management of personal property assets. The respective program's Head of Contracting Activity is responsible to issue direction to Contracting Officers to incorporate any and all applicable requirements of the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR and any supplemental Program Office guidance into contracts identified with life-cycle management of personal property.

(f) Principal authority and responsibility for the administration of DOE personal property in the custody of its contractors rest with the responsible Contracting Officer.

(g) The FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR shall be used by contracting officers in the administration of applicable contracts, and in the review, approval, or appraisal of such contractor operations.

(h) Regulations for the management of Government property in the possession of other DOE contractors are contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR part 45, and in the DOE Acquisition Regulation (DEAR), 48 CFR part 945.

(i) Regulations for the management of personal property held by financial assistance recipients are contained in the DOE Financial Assistance Rules (10 CFR part 600) 2 CFR parts 200 and 910 and DOE Order 534.1, Accounting.
