
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.1 - Regulation System
####### ยง 109-1.107-50 Consultation regarding DOE-PMR.

(a) The DOE-PMR shall be fully coordinated with all Departmental elements substantively concerned with the subject matter.

(b) The accountable Under Secretary is responsible for implementation of the DOE PMR through their respective DOE elements.

(c) Program Secretarial Officers and DOE elements with responsibility for personal property, as delegated by their cognizant Under Secretary, may develop program management plans and issue internal program office guidance that is aligned to the requirements in the DOE-PMR and as explicitly authorized by their Under Secretary.

(d) Heads of Contracting Activity designates Organizational Property Management Officers (OPMO) to establish and administer personal property management programs within their organizations.

(e) Contracting Officers designates Property Administrators (PA) as authorized representatives responsible performing delegated contract administration functions for contract and financial assistance requirements relating to Government personal property.

(f) The Office of Management is responsible for Agency-level management of the contract property program and provides policy and management assistance in support of the policy implementation effort. The Office of Management designates an Agency Property Executive to serve as National Utilization Officer responsible for promoting acquisition and utilization of excess personal property and for establishing policies, standards, and guidance in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and sound personal property management practices and standards.
