
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.51 - Personal Property Management Standards and Practices
####### ยง 109-1.5103 Loan of personal property.

(a) Personal property which is not excess and would otherwise be out of service for temporary periods may be loaned to other DOE offices and contractors, other Federal agencies, and to others for official purposes. The loan request shall be in writing, stating the purpose of the loan and period of time required. The loan shall be executed on DOE Form 4420.2, Personal Property Loan Agreement when approved in writing by the OPMO or on-site DOE property administrator. When approved, a memorandum transmitting the loan agreement shall be prepared identifying the loan period, delivery time, method of payment and transportation, and point of delivery and return, to ensure proper control and protect DOE's interest. The domestic loan period shall not exceed one year, but may be renewed in one year increments. Second renewals of loan agreements shall be reviewed and justified at a level of management at least two levels above that of the individual making the determination to loan the property. Third renewals shall be approved by the head of the field organization or designee.

(b) Requests for loans to foreign Governments and other foreign organizations shall be submitted to the Office of International Affairs for approval, with a copy to the cognizant Headquarters program office.
