
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.51 - Personal Property Management Standards and Practices
####### ยง 109-1.5113 Loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in possession of designated contractors.

(a) Designated contractors shall report any loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in its possession or control, including property in the possession or control of subcontractors, to the property administrator as soon as it becomes known.

(b) When physical inventories, consumption analyses, or other actions disclose consumption of property considered unreasonable by the property administrator; or loss, damage, or destruction of personal property not previously reported by the contractor, the property administrator shall require the contractor to investigate the incidents and submit written reports.

(c) Reports of physical inventory results and identified discrepancies shall be submitted to the property administrator within 90 days of completion of physical inventories. An acceptable percentage of shrinkage for stores inventories shall be determined by the property administrator on a location-by-location basis, based on type and cost of materials, historical data, and other site-specific factors. This determination shall be in writing and be supported by appropriate documentation.

(d) The contractor's report referenced above shall contain factual data as to the circumstances surrounding the loss, damage, destruction or excessive consumption, including:

(1) The contractor's name and contract number;

(2) A description of the property;

(3) Cost of the property, and cost of repairs in instances of damage (in event actual cost is not known, use reasonable estimate);

(4) The date, time (if pertinent), and cause or origin; and

(5) Actions taken by the contractor to prevent further loss, damage, destruction, or unreasonable consumption, and to prevent repetition of similar incidents.

(e) The property administrator shall ensure that the corrective actions taken by the contractor under paragraph (d)(5) of this section satisfactorily address system weaknesses.

(f) The contracting officer shall make a determination of contractor liability with a copy of the determination furnished to the contractor and the property administrator. Costs may be assessed against a contractor for physical inventory discrepancies or other instances of loss of Government property within the terms of the contract. Credit should only be applied if specific items reported as lost can be uniquely identified. General physical inventory write-ons are not to be used as a credit.

(g) If part of a designated contractor's personal property management system is found to be unsatisfactory, the property administrator shall increase surveillance of that part to prevent, to the extent possible, any loss, damage, destruction or unreasonable consumption of personal property. The property administrator shall give special attention to reasonably ensuring that any loss, damage, destruction or unreasonable consumption occurring during a period when a contractor's personal property management system is not approved is identified before approval or reinstatement of approval.
