
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.52 - Personal Property Management Program for Designated Contractors
####### ยง 109-1.5201 Policy.

(a) Designated contractors shall establish, implement, and maintain a system that provides for an efficient personal property management program. The system shall be consistent with the terms of the contract; prescribed policies, procedures, regulations, statutes, and instructions; and directions from the contracting officer.

(b) Designated contractors' personal property management systems shall not be considered acceptable until reviewed and approved in writing by the cognizant DOE contracting office in accordance with ยง 109-1.5205 of this subpart.

(c) Designated contractors shall maintain their personal property management systems in writing. Revisions to the systems shall be approved in writing by the cognizant DOE contracting office in accordance with ยง 109-1.5205 of this subpart.

(d) Designated contractors shall include their personal property management system in their management surveillance or internal review program in order to identify weaknesses and functions requiring corrective action.

(e) Designated contractors are responsible and accountable for all Government personal property in the possession of subcontractors, and shall include appropriate provisions in their subcontracts and property management systems to assure that subcontractors establish and maintain efficient systems for the management of Government personal property in their possession in accordance with ยง 109-1.5204 of this subpart.
