
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.52 - Personal Property Management Program for Designated Contractors
####### ยง 109-1.5204 Review and approval of a designated contractor's personal property management system.

(a) An initial review of a designated contractor's personal property management system shall be performed by the property administrator within one year after the execution date of the contract, except for contract extensions or renewals or when an existing contractor has been awarded a follow-on contract. The purpose of the review is to determine whether the contractor's system provides adequate protection, maintenance, utilization, and disposition of personal property, and reasonable assurance that the Department's personal property is safeguarded against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation, in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, contract terms and conditions, programmatic needs, and good business practices. If circumstances preclude completion of the initial review within the "within one year" initial review requirement, the property administrator shall request a deviation from the requirement in accordance with the provisions of ยง 109-1.110-50 of this part.

(b) If a designated contractor is the successor to a previous designated contractor and the contract award was based in part on the contractor's proposal to overhaul the existing personal property management system(s), the "within one year" initial review requirement may be extended based on:

(1) The scope of the overhaul; and

(2) An analysis of the cost to implement the overhaul within a year versus a proposed extended period.

(c) When an existing contract has been extended or renewed, or the designated contractor has been awarded a follow-on contract, an initial review of the contractor's personal property management system is not required. In such cases, the established appraisal schedule will continue to be followed as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) At a minimum of every three years after the date of approval of a designated contractor's property management system, the OPMO/PA shall make an appraisal of the personal property management operation of the contractor. The purpose of the appraisal is to determine if the contractor is managing personal property in accordance with its previously approved system and procedures, and to establish whether such procedures are efficient. The appraisal may be based on a formal comprehensive appraisal or a series of formal appraisals of the functional segments of the contractor's operation.

(e) A designated contractor's property management system shall be approved, conditionally approved, or disapproved in writing by the head of the field organization with advice of the contracting officer, property administrator, OPMO, legal counsel, and appropriate program officials. Approval authority may be redelegated to the contracting officer or OPMO/PA. Conditional approval and disapproval authority cannot be redelegated. When a system is conditionally approved or disapproved, the property administrator or contracting officer shall advise the contractor, in writing, of deficiencies that need to be corrected, and a time schedule established for completion of corrective actions.

(f) Appropriate follow-up will be made by the property administrator to ensure that corrective actions have been initiated and completed.

(g) When a determination has been made by the property administrator that all major system deficiencies identified in the review or appraisal have been corrected, the head of the field organization shall withdraw the conditional approval or disapproval, and approve the system with the concurrence of the OPMO/PA. The approval shall be in writing and addressed to appropriate contractor management.

(h) The property administrator shall maintain a copy of all designated contractor personal property management system appraisals and approvals in such manner as to be readily available to investigative and external review teams.
