
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-1 - INTRODUCTION
###### Subpart 109-1.53 - Management of High Risk Personal Property
####### ยง 109-1.5303 Procedures.
######## Identification, marking and control.

(a)To ensure the appropriate treatment of property at its disposal and to prevent inadvertent, uncontrolled release of high risk property, property should be assessed and evaluated as high risk property as early in its life cycle as practical.

(1) Newly acquired high risk personal property shall be identified and tracked during the acquisition process and marked upon receipt.

(2) All personal property shall be reviewed for high risk identification, marking, and database entry during regularly scheduled physical inventories, unless access to the property is difficult or impractical because the property is a component of a larger assembly, a complex operating system, or an older facility. The review of this property will be completed, prior to disposition, when replacing components or when operating systems and facilities are decommissioned and dismantling.

(3) High risk personal property which by its nature cannot be marked, such as stores items and metal stock, is exempt from this requirement. However, personal property management programs should contain documentation on the characterization of this property as high risk.
