
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 109-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 109-26.501-50 Authority and allocations for the acquisition of passenger motor vehicles.

(a) Authority for the acquisition of passenger motor vehicles is contained in the Department's annual appropriation act.

(b) DOE offices shall include in their budget submissions the number of passenger motor vehicles to be purchased during the fiscal year. The procurements will be identified as either additions to the motor vehicle fleet or replacement vehicles. A copy of the motor vehicle portion of the submission should be submitted to the Office of Management.

(c) To ensure that DOE does not exceed the number of passenger motor vehicles authorized to be acquired in any fiscal year, the Office of Management or designee shall allocate to and inform the field organizations in writing of the number of passenger motor vehicles which may be acquired under each appropriation. These allocations and the statutory cost limitations imposed on these motor vehicles shall not be exceeded.

(d) The motor vehicle fleet manager shall provide written certification to the OPMO that disposition action has been taken on replaced passenger motor vehicles. Such certification shall be provided no later than 30 days after the disposition of the vehicle. Replaced passenger motor vehicles shall not be retained in service after receipt of the replacement vehicle.
