
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-27 - INVENTORY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart 109-27.51 - Management of Precious Metals
####### ยง 109-27.5103 Precious Metals Control Officer.

Each DOE organization and contractor holding precious metals shall designate in writing a Precious Metals Control Officer. This individual shall be the organization's primary point of contact concerning precious metals control and management, and shall be responsible for the following:

(a) Ensuring that the organization's precious metals activities are conducted in accordance with Departmental requirements.

(b) Maintaining an accurate list of the names of precious metals custodians.

(c) Providing instructions and training to precious metals custodians and/or users as necessary to assure compliance with regulatory responsibilities.

(d) Ensuring that physical inventories are performed as required by, and in accordance with, these regulations.

(e) Witnessing physical inventories.

(f) Performing periodic unannounced inspections of a custodian's precious metals inventory and records.

(g) Conducting an annual review of precious metals holdings to determine excess quantities.

(h) Preparing and submitting to the DOE Business Center for Precious Metals Sales and Recovery the annual forecast of anticipated withdrawals from, and returns to, the DOE precious metals pool.

(i) Conducting a program for the recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film in accordance with 41 CFR 101-45.10 and ยง 109-45.10 of this chapter.

(j) Preparing and submitting of the annual report on recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film as required by ยง 109-45.1002-2 of this chapter.

(k) Developing and issuing current authorization lists of persons authorized by management to withdraw precious metals from stockrooms.
