
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 109-38 - MOTOR EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart 109-38.51 - Utilization of Motor Equipment
####### ยง 109-38.5103 Motor vehicle utilization standards.

(a) The following average utilization standards are established for DOE as objectives for those motor vehicles operated generally for those purposes for which acquired:

(1) Sedans and station wagons, general purpose use-12,000 miles per year.

(2) Light trucks (4 x 2's) and general purpose vehicles, one ton and under (less than 12,500 GVWR)-10,000 miles per year.

(3) Medium trucks and general purpose vehicles, 1ton through 2ton (12,500 to 23,999 GVWR)-7,500 miles per year.

(4) Heavy trucks and general purpose vehicles, three ton and over (24,000 GVWR and over)-7,500 miles per year.

(5) Truck tractors-10,000 miles per year.

(6) All-wheel-drive vehicles-7,500 miles per year.

(7) Other motor vehicles-No utilization standards are established for other trucks, ambulances, buses, law enforcement motor vehicles, and special purpose vehicles. The use of these motor vehicles shall be reviewed at least annually by the motor equipment fleet manager and action shall be taken and documented to verify that the motor vehicles are required to meet programmatic, health, safety, or security requirements.

(b) When operating circumstances prevent the above motor vehicle utilization standards from being met, local use objectives must be established and met as prescribed in ยง 109-38.5105 of this subpart.
