
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter H - Utilization and Disposal
##### PART 109-45 - SALE, ABANDONMENT, OR DESTRUCTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart 109-45.51 - Disposal of Excess and Surplus Personal Property in Foreign Areas
####### ยง 109-45.5104-1 General.

Foreign excess personal property which is not required for transfer within DOE or to other U.S. Government agencies, except for the personal property identified in ยง 109-45.5005-1(a) of this part, shall be considered surplus and may be disposed of by transfer, sale, exchange, or lease, for cash, credit, or other property and upon such other terms and conditions as may be deemed proper. Such personal property may also be donated, abandoned, or destroyed under the conditions specified in ยง 109-45.5105-2 of this subpart. Most foreign governments have indicated to the U.S. State Department that they wish to be consulted before U.S. Government property is disposed of in their countries (except in the case of transfers to other U.S. Government agencies). Matters concerning customs duties and taxes, or similar charges, may require prior agreement with the foreign government involved. The State Department shall be contacted in regard to these issues. Whenever advice or approval of the State Department is required by this subpart, it may be obtained either through the foreign service post in the foreign area involved or from the State Department in Washington, DC. If the issue is to be presented to the State Department in Washington, DC, it shall be referred through appropriate administrative channels to the Office of International Affairs for review, coordination, and handling.
