
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter H - Utilization and Disposal
##### PART 109-45 - SALE, ABANDONMENT, OR DESTRUCTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart 109-45.51 - Disposal of Excess and Surplus Personal Property in Foreign Areas
####### ยง 109-45.5104-2 Methods of disposal.

(a) Sales of foreign surplus personal property shall be conducted in accordance with the following guidelines:

(1) Generally, all sales of foreign surplus personal property shall be conducted under the competitive bid process unless it is advantageous and more practicable to the Government not to do so. When competitive bids are not solicited, reasonable inquiry of prospective purchasers shall be made in order that sales may be made on terms most advantageous to the U.S. Government.

(2) In no event shall any personal property be sold in foreign areas without a condition which states that its importation into the United States is forbidden unless the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture (in the case of any agricultural commodity, food, cotton, or woolen goods), or the U.S. Secretary of Commerce (in the case of any other property), has determined that the importation of such property would relieve domestic shortages or otherwise be beneficial to the economy of the United States.

(3) Sales documents shall provide that the purchaser must pay any import duties or taxes levied against personal property sold in the country involved and further provide that the amount of this duty or tax shall not be included as a part of the price paid the U.S. Government for the personal property. In the event the levy is placed upon the seller by law, the buyer will be required to pay all such duties or taxes and furnish the seller copies of his receipts prior to the release of the personal property to him. However, if the foreign government involved will not accept payment from the buyer, the seller will collect the duties or taxes and turn the amounts collected over to the foreign government. Accounting for the amounts collected shall be coordinated with the disbursing officer of the nearest United States foreign service post. The property shall not be released to the purchaser until the disposal officer is satisfied that there is no responsibility for payment by the United States (as contrasted to collection by the United States) of taxes, duties, excises, etc.

(4) Advance approval must be obtained from the State Department for the sale of certain categories of personal property, including small arms and machine guns; artillery and projectiles; ammunition, bombs, torpedoes, rockets and guided missiles; fire control equipment and range finders; tanks and ordnance vehicles; chemical and biological agents, propellants and explosives; vessels of war and special naval equipment; aircraft and all components, parts and accessories for aircraft; military electronic equipment; aerial cameras, military photo-interpretation, stereoscopic plotting and photogrammetry equipment; and all material not enumerated which is included in the United States Munitions List, 22 CFR 121.01, and is subject to disposal restrictions. Therefore, prior to the sale of any of the articles enumerated in the U.S. Munitions List, the foreign service post in the area shall be consulted.

(5) All proposed sales, regardless of the total acquisition cost of personal property involved, which the head of the DOE foreign office believes might have a significant economic or political impact in a particular area, shall be discussed with the foreign service post.

(b) While there is authority for exchange or lease of foreign surplus personal property, such authority shall be exercised only when such action is clearly in the best interests of the U.S. Government. Disposals by exchange are subject to the same requirements as disposals by sale under ยง 109-45.5105-2 of this subpart.

(c)(1) Foreign excess or surplus personal property (including salvage and scrap) may be donated, abandoned, or destroyed provided:

(i) The property has no commercial value or the estimated cost of its care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale; and

(ii) A written finding to that effect is made and approved by the Office of International Affairs.

(2) No personal property shall be abandoned or destroyed if donation is feasible. Donations under these conditions may be made to any agency of the U.S. Government, or to educational, public health, or charitable nonprofit organizations.

(3) Foreign excess personal property may also be abandoned or destroyed when such action is required by military necessity, safety, or considerations of health or security. A written statement explaining the basis for disposal by these means and approval by the Office of International Affairs.

(4) Property shall not be abandoned or destroyed in a manner which is detrimental or dangerous to public health and safety, or which will cause infringement on the rights of other persons.
