
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter H - Utilization and Disposal
##### PART 109-50 - SPECIAL DOE DISPOSAL AUTHORITIES
###### Subpart 109-50.1 - Laboratory Equipment Donation Program Grant Program
####### ยง 109-50.106 Procedure.

(a) After DOE utilization screening through EADS, items eligible for LEDP grants are extracted from the EADS system and Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS).

(b) Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) to prospective grantees through an automated system.

(c) The following periods have been established during which time equipment will remain available to this program prior to reporting it to GSA for reutilization by other Federal agencies:

(1) Thirty days from the date DOE utilization screening is completed to permit suitable time for eligible institutions to review and earmark the desired equipment.

(2) An additional thirty days after the equipment is earmarked to permit the eligible institutions to prepare and submit an equipment proposal request and to provide time for field organizations to review and evaluate the proposal and take appropriate action.

(d) Upon approval of the proposal, a grant will be issued to the institution upon completion.

(e) A copy of the completed grant, shall be used to transfer title and drop accountability of the granted equipment from the financial records.

(f) The cost of care and handling of personal property incident to the grant shall be charged to the receiving institution. Such costs may consist of packing, crating, shipping and insurance, and are limited to actual costs. In addition, where appropriate, the cost of any repair and/or modification to any equipment shall be borne by the recipient institution.
