
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter H - Utilization and Disposal
##### PART 109-50 - SPECIAL DOE DISPOSAL AUTHORITIES
###### Subpart 109-50.2 - Math and Science Equipment Gift Program
####### ยง 109-50.204 Limitations.

(a) Excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment at DOE Field Organizations and cognizant facilities is eligible for transfer as a gift under this program. However, safety, environmental, and health matters must be considered.

(b) Title to the equipment will transfer upon the recipient's written acknowledgement of receipt.

(c) The Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) may authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment by signature on the appropriate gift instrument where the book value of an item of equipment exceeds $25,000 or the cumulative book value of the gifts under this program to any one institution exceeds $25,000. HCA or designee may authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment of lesser individual and cumulative book value by signature on the appropriate gift instrument. Delegations by the HCA to authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment shall be in writing to a specific individual, for a specified period of time, and for a specified (or unlimited) level of authority.

(d) Gifts shall be serviceable and in working order. Disposal Condition Codes 1 and 4, as defined in 41 CFR 101-43.4801(e), meet this criteria. Serviceability of equipment should be verified before the gift is made to the eligible recipient.
