
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 109 - Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter H - Utilization and Disposal
##### PART 109-50 - SPECIAL DOE DISPOSAL AUTHORITIES
###### Subpart 109-50.2 - Math and Science Equipment Gift Program
####### ยง 109-50.205 Procedure.
######## e.g.,

(c) Precollege institutions with partnership arrangements with the DOE or its facilities (an adopted school) may receive gifts of equipment in support of the partnership.

(d) Precollege institutions not in a partnership with DOE may receive equipment at the recommendation of the chief State School Board Officer. The Chief State School Board Officer will determine which schools within the state will receive which equipment. Consideration for placement of the equipment should be based on:

(1) The elementary or secondary schools determined to have the greatest need; or

(2) Recipients of federally funded math and science projects where the equipment would further enhance the progress of the project.

(e) Eligible recipients will have 30 days to select and freeze, on a first come, first serve basis, the items desired and submit a request for selected items stating:

(1) Why the gift is needed; and

(2) How the gift will be used to improve math and science curricula or in the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.

(f) The cost of shipping should be minimal and not more than the actual equipment value.

(g) An Equipment Gift Agreement will be prepared and used to provide the gift to eligible recipients. The gift agreement will be in the format provided in section 109-50.4801 of this subchapter. The agreement shall be numbered for control purposes, and signed by the Office of Science's Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) or the HCA or designee, as appropriate, and an appropriate official representing the eligible recipient.
