
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 128 - Department of Justice
#### PART 128-1 - INTRODUCTION
##### Subpart 128-1.50 - Authorities and Responsibilities for Personal Property Management
###### § 128-1.5005-1 Primary delegations.

The following authorities are redelegated to the heads of bureaus for use within their respective jurisdictions and shall be exercised in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Assistant Attorney General for Administration.

(a) Designating the PMO, for the bureau, within the following limitations:

(1) Only one PMO is to be designated for the bureau, at the bureau level. Neither the title designation nor the responsibilities of the PMO are to be delegated below that level.

(2) One or more PC's also may be designated for the bureau, depending upon the size and complexity of the organizational structure. Each PC is responsible solely for that property within his respective jurisdiction. The number and distribution of PC's designated is entirely at the option of the head of the bureau.

(3) There is no restriction on designating a single individual as PMO and PC providing that the functions and responsibilities are compatible and are within the capabilities of a single person.

(b) Authorizing exceptions to the FPMR use and replacement standards for office machines, furniture, furnishings and typewriters specified in §§ 101-25.3 and 101-25.4.

(c) Authorizing exceptions to FPMR replacement standards for materials handling equipment specified in § 101-25.304.

(d) Authorizing the procurement of passenger motor vehicles with additional systems or equipment or the procurement of additional systems or equipment for passenger motor vehicles already owned or operated by the Government, in conformance with Federal Standards No. 122 and § 101-25.304.

(e) Authorizing the retention for official use by the bureau of abandoned or other unclaimed personal property and of personal property which is voluntarily abandoned or forfeited other than by court decree.

(f) Determining when personal property becomes excess and reporting the excess property to the General Services Administration (GSA).

(g) Assigning or transferring excess personal property within the bureau to other bureaus of the Department, other Federal agencies, the Legislative Branch to the Judicial Branch, to wholly-owned or mixed-ownership Government corporations, to cost-reimbursable type contractors, or to authorized grantees.

(h) Transferring property forfeited to the Government to other authorized recipients or requesting judicial transfer of such property from others to the bureau.

(i) Determining fair market value of abandoned and other unclaimed property retained for official use by the bureau, for deposit to a special fund for reimbursement of owners.

(j) Approving claims and reimbursing, less direct costs, former owners of abandoned or other unclaimed personal property which has been sold or retained for official use.

(k) Recommending non-Federal grantee excess property screeners to GSA as required in FPMR 101-43.320(h).

(l) When authorized by statutory authority, vesting title to Government-furnished personal property in contractors or grantees.

(m) Acquiring excess personal property from other bureaus and from other Federal agencies.
