
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 128 - Department of Justice
#### PART 128-1 - INTRODUCTION
##### Subpart 128-1.50 - Authorities and Responsibilities for Personal Property Management
###### ยง 128-1.5009 Authorization for use of the Federal Bureau of Investigation anti-piracy warning seal.
####### Purpose.

(a)The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Anti-Piracy Warning Seal ("APW Seal") is an official insignia of the FBI and the United States Department of Justice. The purpose of the APW Seal is to help detect and deter criminal violations of United States intellectual property laws by educating the public about the existence of these laws and the authority of the FBI to enforce them.

(b) The APW Seal is a modified image of the Official FBI Seal with the words "FBI ANTI-PIRACY WARNING" displayed horizontally across its center in an enclosed border, whether rendered in color, black and white, outline, or otherwise.

(c) The APW Seal has been approved by the Attorney General as an official insignia of the FBI within the meaning of Title 18, United States Code, Section 701, which provides criminal sanctions for unauthorized uses of such insignia.

(d)(1) The regulations in this section authorize use of the APW Seal by copyright holders on copyrighted works including, but not limited to films, audio recordings, electronic media, software, books, photographs, etc., subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this section.

(2) Use of the APW Seal or of the authorized warning language in a manner not authorized under this section may be punishable under Title 18, United States Code, Sections 701, 709, or other applicable law.
