
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 128 - Department of Justice
#### PART 128-1 - INTRODUCTION
##### Subpart 128-1.80 - Seismic Safety Program
###### ยง 128-1.8006 Seismic Safety Program requirements.
####### Existing building projects.

(b)For new buildings with construction documents that were initiated prior to August 12, 1993, the documents shall be reviewed to determine whether they comply with the appropriate standards. If the reviewer determines that the documents comply with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the appropriate standards. If the reviewer determines that seismic deficiencies exist, the appropriate Component Head shall ensure completion of one of the following:

(1) For a new building project for which a contract for construction has not been awarded, the construction documents shall be revised to incorporate the appropriate standards. The revised construction documents shall then be reviewed for compliance. Once the reviewer determines that the documents comply with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the Department standards.

(2) For a new building under construction, or for which construction has been completed, a corrective action plan shall be devised to bring the building into compliance with the appropriate standards. The plan shall then be reviewed for compliance. Once the reviewer determines that the plan complies with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the Department standards. The Component Head shall ensure implementation of the approved plan.

(3) For an addition to an existing building, the review shall account for, in addition to the requirements provided in paragraphs (b) (1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate, any effect the addition will have on the seismic resistance of the existing portion of the structure. If the reviewer determines that the addition will decrease the level of seismic resistance of the existing building, the appropriate Component Head shall develop a plan of corrective action to restore the seismic integrity of the existing structure. Once the plan of corrective action has been accomplished, the reviewer shall verify that the current level of seismic resistance of the existing building at least equals the seismic resistance level of the building before the addition.

(c) The Department Seismic Safety Coordinator and each Component Seismic Safety Coordinator shall ensure that statements verifying compliance made under this subpart have been completed and retained by the appropriate contracting officer when the Department contracted for design or design review services, or by an individual designated by the Component Head where the Department has not contracted for either design or design review.
