
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 128 - Department of Justice
#### PART 128-48 - UTILIZATION, DONATION, OR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED AND FORFEITED PERSONAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart 128-48.1 - Utilization of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
###### ยง 128-48.102-1 Vesting of title in the United States.

(a) Abandoned or other unclaimed property, subject to the provisions of section 203(m) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 484(m)), shall remain in the custody of and be the responsibility of the bureau finding such property.

(b) If the owner of such property is known, the owner shall be notified within 20 days of finding such property by certified mail at the owner's address of record that the property may be claimed by the owner or his designee and that if the property is not claimed within 30 days from the date the letter of notification is postmarked, the title of the property will vest in the United States.

(c) If the owner of such property is not known and the estimated value of the property exceeds $100, the bureau shall post notice within 20 days of finding such property, which contains the following information:

(1) A description of the property including model or serial numbers, if known.

(2) A statement of the location where the property was found and the office that has custody of it.

(3) A statement that any person desiring to claim the property must file with the bureau within 30 days from the date of first publication a claim for said property.

(4) A complete mailing address is to be provided as a point of contact within the bureau for any person to obtain additional information concerning the property or the procedures involved in filing a claim.

(d) Property, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, shall be held for a period of 30 days from the date of the first publication of notice. Upon the expiration of this 30-day period, title to such property vests in the United States, except that title reverts to the owner where a proper claim is filed within three years from the date of vesting of title in the United States, but if the property has been in official use, transferred for official use, or sold at the time the proper claim is approved, title shall not revert back to the former owner. The former owner shall instead obtain reimbursement in accordance with 41 CFR 101-48.102-4 or 101-48.305-1.

(e) If the owner of such property is unknown and the estimated value of the property is $100 or less, no notice is required, and the property shall be held for a period of 30 days from the date of finding the property. Upon expiration of this 30-day period, title to such property vests in the United States.
