
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle D - Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
### Chapter 201 - Federal Acquisition Security Council
#### PART 201-1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Supply Chain Risk Information Sharing
###### ยง 201-1.201 Submitting information to the FASC.
####### Dissemination of information by the FASC.

(f)The FASC may, in its sole discretion, disclose its recommendations and any supply chain risk information relevant to those recommendations to Federal or non-Federal entities if the FASC determines that such sharing may facilitate identification or mitigation of supply chain risk, and disclosure is consistent with the following paragraphs:

(1) The FASC may maintain its recommendations and any supply chain risk information as nonpublic, to the extent permitted by law, or release such information to impacted entities and appropriate stakeholders. The FASC shall have discretion to determine the circumstances under which information will be released, as well as the timing of any such release, the scope of the information to be released, and the recipients to whom information will be released.

(2) Any release by the FASC of recommendations or supply chain risk information will be in accordance title 41 U.S.C. 1323 and the provisions of this subpart.

(3) The FASC will not release a recommendation to a non-Federal entity, other than a source named in the recommendation, unless an exclusion or removal order has been issued based on that recommendation, and the named source has been notified.

(4) The FASC (including the ISA, Task Force, and any other FASC constituent bodies) shall comply with applicable limitations on dissemination of supply chain risk information submitted pursuant to this subpart, including but not limited to the following restrictions:

(i) Controlled Unclassified Information, such as Law Enforcement Sensitive, Proprietary, Privileged, or Personally Identifiable Information, may only be disseminated in compliance with the restrictions applicable to the information and in accordance with the FASC's processes and procedures for disseminating controlled unclassified information as required by this part.

(ii) Classified Information may only be disseminated consistent with the restrictions applicable to the information and in accordance with the FASC's processes and procedures for disseminating classified information as required by this part.
