
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 301 - Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
#### Subchapter B - Allowable Travel Expenses
##### PART 301-10 - TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart E - Special Conveyances
####### Rental Automobiles
######## ยง 301-10.450 What are the policies when authorized to rent a vehicle for official travel?

(a) Your agency must determine that use of a rental vehicle is advantageous to the Government and must specifically authorize such use.

(b) When authorized to use a rental vehicle, you should consider renting a vehicle from a vendor that participates in the Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) U.S. Government Car Rental Agreement to avail yourself of the Agreement's benefits, including the insurance and damage liability provisions, unless you are OCONUS and no agreement is in place for your TDY location. The advantages of renting a car through the DTMO rental car program are:

(1) Rental car agreements are pre-negotiated;

(2) The agreement includes automatic unlimited mileage and collision damage insurance; and

(3) The rates established by the car rental agreement cannot be exceeded by the vendor.

(c) Travelers must use the least expensive compact car available, unless an exception for another class of vehicle is approved. Agencies should approve these exceptions on a limited basis and must indicate on the travel authorization the reason for the exception. Your agency may authorize the use of other than a compact car if any of the following apply:

(1) When use of other than a compact car is necessary to accommodate a medical disability or other special need.

(i) A disability must be certified annually in a written statement by a competent medical authority. However, if the disability is a lifelong condition, then a one-time certification statement is required. Certification statements must include at a minimum:

(A) A written statement by a competent medical authority stating that special accommodation is necessary;

(B) An approximate duration of the special accommodation; and

(ii) A special need must be certified annually in writing according to your agency's procedures. However, if the special need is a lifelong condition, then a one-time certification statement is required;

(iii) If you are authorized under ยง 301-13.3(a) to have an attendant accompany you, your agency may authorize the use of other than a compact car if deemed necessary by your agency.

(2) When required because of agency mission, consistent with your agency's internal procedures pursuant to ยง 301-70.102(i).

(3) When the cost of other than a compact car is less than or equal to the cost of the least expensive compact car.

(4) When additional room is required to accommodate multiple employees authorized to travel together in the same rental vehicle.

(5) When travelers must carry a large amount of Government material incident to their official business, and a compact rental vehicle does not contain sufficient space.

(6) When necessary for safety reasons, such as during severe weather or having to travel on rough or difficult terrain.

(d) Travelers are not to be reimbursed for purchasing pre-paid refueling options for rental cars. Therefore, travelers should refuel prior to returning the rental vehicle to the drop-off location. However, if it is not possible to refuel completely prior to returning the vehicle because of safety issues or the location of closest fueling station, travelers will be reimbursed for vendor refueling charges.

(e) Travelers will not be reimbursed for fees associated with rental car loyalty points or the transfer of points charged by car companies.

(f) A rental car is to be used only for official purposes, which include transportation:

(1) Between places of official business;

(2) Between such places and places of temporary lodging when public transportation is unavailable or its use is impractical; or

(3) Between either subparagraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph and restaurants, drug stores, barber shops, places of worship, cleaning establishments, and similar places necessary for the sustenance, comfort, or health of the employee to foster the continued efficient performance of Government business.
