
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 301 - Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
#### Subchapter D - Agency Responsibilities
##### PART 301-70 - INTERNAL POLICY AND PROCEDURE REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart B - Policies and Procedures Relating to Transportation
####### ยง 301-70.101 What factors must we consider in determining which method of transportation results in the greatest advantage to the Government?

In selecting a particular method of transportation you must consider:

(a) The total cost to the Government, including per diem, overtime, lost worktime, actual transportation cost, total distance of travel, number of points visited, the number of travelers and energy conservation. As stated in 5 U.S.C. 5733, "travel of an employee shall be by the most expeditious means of transportation practicable and shall be commensurate with the nature and purpose of the duties of the employee requiring such travel."

(b) Travel by common carrier (air, rail, bus) is considered the most advantageous method to perform official travel. Other methods of transportation may be authorized as advantageous only when the use of common carrier transportation would interfere with the performance of official business or impose an undue hardship upon the traveler, or when the total cost by common carrier exceeds the cost by another method of transportation. A determination that another method of transportation is more advantageous to the Government than common carrier will not be made on the basis of personal preference or inconvenience to the traveler.

(c) When travel must be performed by automobile, agencies should next consider using a Government-furnished automobile.

(d) If a Government-furnished automobile is not available, agencies should then consider using the least expensive compact rental vehicle.

(e) Agencies should lastly consider authorizing a POV only if the employee agrees to use a POV, because agencies cannot mandate employees to use their POV for official reasons.
