
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 302 - Relocation Allowances
#### Subchapter F - Miscellaneous Allowances
##### PART 302-17 - TAXES ON RELOCATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart B - The Withholding Tax Allowance (WTA)
####### ยง 302-17.21 What relocation expenses does the WTA cover?

The WTA covers certain allowances, reimbursements, and/or direct payments to vendors, to the extent that each of them is taxable income. In particular, the WTA covers:

(a) En route lodging, meals and incidental expenses-Reimbursements for lodging, meals and incidental expenses while en route to the new official station for you and your immediate family member(s). (See part 302-4 of this chapter).

(b) Transportation-Transportation expenses, to include commercial air or privately owned vehicle, for you and your immediate family member(s) transferred between official stations. (See part 302-4 of this chapter).

(c) Househunting trip-Travel (including per diem and transportation) expenses for you and/or your spouse for a round trip to the new official station to seek permanent residence quarters. Househunting is covered regardless of whether reimbursed under the per diem allowance or lump sum method. (See part 302-5 of this chapter).

(d) Temporary quarters-Subsistence expenses for you and your immediate family during occupancy of temporary quarters at the old or new official station. Temporary quarters are covered regardless of whether reimbursed under the actual expense or lump sum method. (See part 302-6 of this chapter).

(e) Transportation and temporary storage of personal property-Transportation and temporary storage of household goods (HHG) and at Government expense for employees who transferred between official stations. (See part 302-7 of this chapter).

(f) Extended storage-Extended storage of household goods for a temporary change of station in CONUS or assignment to an isolated duty station in CONUS. (See part 302-8 of this chapter).

(g) Transportation of privately owned vehicle-Transportation of a privately owned vehicle at Government expense for employees who transferred between official stations in CONUS. (See part 302-9 of this chapter).

(h) Transportation of mobile homes and boats used as a primary residence-Expenses for transportation of a mobile home or boat in lieu of transportation of household goods to the new official station. (See part 302-10 of this chapter).

(i) Real estate-Expenses for the sale of the residence at your old official station and/or purchase of a home at your new official station, when reimbursement is made directly to you. This can also include expenses for settling an unexpired lease ("breaking" a lease) at your old official station. (See part 302-11 of this chapter. If you or a member of your immediate family do not hold full title to the home you are selling or buying, see ยง 302-11.103 of this chapter).

(j) Relocation services company-Expenses paid by a relocation services company to the extent such payments constitute taxable income to the employee. The extent to which such payments constitute taxable income varies according to the individual circumstances of your relocation, and by the state and locality in which you reside. (See appropriate state and local tax authorities for additional information). (See also part 302-12 of this chapter).

(k) Property Management Services-Payment for the services of a property manager for renting rather than selling a residence at your old official station. (See part 302-15 of this chapter).

(l) Miscellaneous expense allowance-Miscellaneous expenses for defraying certain relocation expenses not covered by other relocation benefits. (See part 302-16 of this chapter).
