
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 302 - Relocation Allowances
#### Subchapter F - Miscellaneous Allowances
##### PART 302-17 - TAXES ON RELOCATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart B - The Withholding Tax Allowance (WTA)
####### ยง 302-17.22 What relocation expenses does the WTA not cover?

The WTA does not cover the following relocation expenses:

(a) Any reimbursement, allowance, or direct payment to a vendor that should not be reported as taxable income when you file your Federal tax return; this includes but is not limited to expenses for transportation of POVs for OCONUS assignments.

(b) Reimbursed expenses for extended storage of household goods during an OCONUS assignment, if reimbursement is permitted under your agency's policy.

(c) State and local withholding tax obligations. To the extent that your state or local tax authority requires periodic (such as quarterly) tax payments, you are responsible to pay these from your own funds. Your agency reimburses you for substantially all of these payments through the RITA process, but your agency does not provide a WTA for them. If required to by state or local law, your agency may withhold these from your reimbursement.

(d) Additional taxes due under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act including Social Security tax, if applicable, and Medicare tax. Current law does not allow Federal agencies to reimburse transferees for these employment taxes on relocation benefits. However, your agency will deduct for these taxes from your reimbursements for taxable items.

(e) Home marketing incentive payment. In accordance with FTR part 302-14, your agency may not provide you either a WTA or RITA for this incentive.

(f) Any recruitment, relocation, or retention incentive payment that you receive. Any withholding of taxes for such payments is outside the scope of this regulation. Rather, it is covered by regulations issued by the Office of Personnel Management, Treasury's Financial Management Service, and the IRS.

(g) Any allowances, reimbursements, and/or direct payments to vendors not related to your relocation; for example, a reimbursement for office supplies would not be covered by the WTA, even if it occurred during your relocation.
