
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 302 - Relocation Allowances
#### Subchapter F - Miscellaneous Allowances
##### PART 302-17 - TAXES ON RELOCATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart F - The One-Year RITA Process
####### ยง 302-17.54 How does my agency calculate my RITA under the one-year process?

(a) Your agency provides allowances to you, reimburses you for vouchers that you submit, and pays certain relocation vendors directly, all during the calendar year as described in subpart B of this part. Some of these reimbursements, allowances, and direct payments to vendors are taxable income to you, the employee, as described in subpart A of this part. Your agency computes a WTA and reports the WTA to the IRS as taxes withheld for you for each of these taxable reimbursements, allowances, and direct payments to vendors. The WTA may be optional to you. However, if your agency is using a one-year RITA process, there is no advantage to you in choosing not to receive the WTA, because your agency will adjust the WTA payment to the IRS. See ยง 302-17.55(a)(1).

(b) Your agency establishes a cutoff date (for example, December 1), after which it will not issue reimbursements or allowances to you or make direct payments to relocation vendors for the rest of the calendar year.

(c) If the information on your "Statement of Income and Tax Filing Status" changes after you have submitted the initial version, you must submit an amended "Statement of Income and Tax Filing Status" no later than your agency's cutoff date.

(d) During the period between the cutoff date and the end of the calendar year, your agency calculates your RITA.

(e) Your RITA is itself taxable income to you. To account for taxes on the RITA, your agency will gross-up your RITA by using a gross-up formula that multiplies the grossed-up CMTR by the total of all covered taxable relocation benefits, and then subtracts your grossed-up WTA from that total. That is:
