
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 302 - Relocation Allowances
#### Subchapter F - Miscellaneous Allowances
##### PART 302-17 - TAXES ON RELOCATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart G - The Two-Year RITA Process
####### ยง 302-17.62 What information do I put on my tax returns for Year 1 under the two-year process?

(a) Your agency provides allowances to you, reimburses you for vouchers that you submit, and pays certain relocation vendors directly, all during the same calendar year, as described in subpart B of this part. Some of these reimbursements, allowances, and direct payments to vendors are taxable income to you, the employee. Your agency computes a WTA and reports that withholding to the IRS for each of these that is taxable. This is Year 1 of the two-year process.

(b) If your agency makes the WTA optional to you and you have chosen not to receive the WTA, then your agency computes withholding tax for each taxable reimbursement, allowance, and direct payment, and reports that withholding to the IRS.

(c) Shortly after the end of the calendar year, your agency provides one or more W-2 forms to you. At its discretion, your agency may include all of your taxable relocation expenses and WTA (if any) in one W-2, along with your regular payroll wages, or it may provide you one W-2 for your regular payroll wages and a separate W-2 for your taxable relocation expenses and WTA (if any).

(d) At approximately the same time as your agency provides your W-2(s), it also may provide you an itemized list of all relocation benefits and the WTA (if any) for each benefit. You should use this statement to verify that your agency has included all covered taxable items in its calculations and to check your agency's calculations.

(e) You must submit all W-2s that you have received with your Year 1 tax returns. On those returns, you must include all taxable relocation expenses during the previous year as income. Furthermore, you must include the WTA (if any) as tax payments that your agency made for you during the previous year, in addition to the regular withholding of payroll taxes from your salary.
