
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle F - Federal Travel Regulation System
### Chapter 302 - Relocation Allowances
#### Subchapter F - Miscellaneous Allowances
##### PART 302-17 - TAXES ON RELOCATION EXPENSES
###### Subpart G - The Two-Year RITA Process
####### ยง 302-17.68 What does my agency do once it has calculated my RITA under the two-year process?

(a) Your RITA is likely to be different from the sum of the WTA(s) paid during Year 1, if any, because the WTA is calculated using a flat rate, established by the IRC, while the RITA is calculated using the CMTR. Therefore:

(1) If the RITA calculation in ยง 302-17.67 results in a negative value (that is, if your agency's calculation shows that it withheld and reported too much money as income taxes), then your agency will report this result to you and will send you a bill for the difference, to repay the excess amount that it sent to the IRS on your behalf as withheld income taxes. The IRS will credit you for the full amount of withheld taxes, including the excess amount, when you file your income tax return for Year 1; therefore, you must repay the excess amount to your agency within 90 days, or within a time period set by your agency. If you are required to repay an amount in Year 2 that was included as wages on your W-2 in Year 1, you may be entitled to a miscellaneous itemized deduction on your Federal income tax return in Year 2. For more information, see IRS Publication 535, "Business Expenses." If your agency chooses to offer you the choice, then you may want to decline the WTA to avoid this so-called "negative RITA" situation.

(2) If the RITA calculation in ยง 302-17.67 results in a positive value (that is, if your agency's calculation shows that it did not withhold enough money as income taxes), then your agency will pay your RITA to you before the end of Year 2 and will report it to the IRS as part of your income for that year. Also, after your agency has paid your RITA to you, it will provide a W-2 that shows your RITA as taxable income to you.

(b) At your agency's discretion, you may receive one W-2 that includes all of your taxable relocation expenses, WTA (if any), and RITA (if any), along with your regular payroll wages, or you may receive one W-2 for your regular payroll wages and a separate one for your taxable relocation expenses, WTA, and RITA.
