
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 60 - Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor
#### PART 60-30 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 11246
##### Prehearing Procedures
###### ยง 60-30.11 Depositions upon oral examination.
####### Production of witnesses; obligation of parties; objections.

(b)It shall be the obligation of each party to produce for examination any person, along with such documents as may be requested, at the time and place, and on the date, set forth in the notice, if that party has control over such person. Each party shall be deemed to have control over its officers, agents, employees, and members. Unless the parties agree otherwise, depositions shall be held within the county in which the witness resides or works. The party or prospective witness may file with the Administrative Law Judge an objection within 5 days after notice of production of such witness is served, stating with particularity the reasons why the party cannot or ought not to produce a requested witness. The party serving the notice may move for an order with respect to such objection or failure to produce a witness. All errors or irregularities in compliance with the provisions of this section shall be deemed waived unless a motion to suppress the deposition or some part thereof is made with reasonable promptness after such defect is or, with due diligence, might have been ascertained.
