
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 60 - Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor
#### PART 60-30 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 11246
##### Expedited Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 60-30.32 Administrative complaint and answer.

(a) Expedited hearings shall be commenced by filing an administrative complaint in accordance with 41 CFR 60-30.5. The complaint shall state that the hearing is subject to these expedited hearing procedures.

(b) The answer shall be filed in accordance with 41 CFR 60-30.6 (a) and (b).

(c) Failure to request a hearing within the 20 days provided by 41 CFR 60-30.6(a) shall constitute a waiver of hearing, and all the material allegations of fact contained in the complaint shall be deemed to be admitted. If a hearing is not requested or is waived, within 25 days of the complaint's filing, the Administrative Law Judge shall adopt as findings of fact the material facts alleged in the complaint, and shall order the appropriate sanctions and/or penalties sought in the complaint. The Administrative Law Judge's findings and order shall constitute a final Administrative order, unless the Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, files exceptions to the findings and order within 10 days of receipt thereof. If the Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, files exceptions, the matter shall proceed in accordance with ยง 60-30.36 of this part.

(d) If a request for a hearing is received within 20 days as provided by 41 CFR 60-30.6(a), the hearing shall be convened within 45 days of receipt of the request and shall be completed within 15 days thereafter, unless more hearing time is required.
