
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 60 - Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor
#### PART 60-40 - EXAMINATION AND COPYING OF OFCCP DOCUMENTS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 60-40.2 Information available on request.

(a) Upon the request of any person for identifiable records obtained or generated pursuant to Executive Order 11246 (as amended) such records shall be made available for inspection and copying, notwithstanding the applicability of the exemption from mandatory disclosure set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552 subsection (b), if it is determined that the requested inspection or copying furthers the public interest and does not impede any of the functions of the OFCCP, except in the case of records disclosure of which is prohibited by law.

(b) Consistent with the above, all contract compliance documents within the custody of the OFCCP shall be disclosed upon request unless specifically prohibited by law or as limited elsewhere herein. The types of documents which if in the custody of the OFCCP must be disclosed include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Affirmative action plans, whether or not reviewed and finally accepted by the OFCCP except as limited in 41 CFR 60-40.3(a)(1).

(2) Imposed plans and hometown plans, pending or approved.

(3) Text of final conciliation agreements.

(4) Validation studies of tests or other preemployment selection methods.

(5) Dates and times of scheduled compliance reviews.
