
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-204 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SUPPLY CONTRACTS
##### Subpart C - Radiation Standards
###### ยง 50-204.36 Radiation standards for mining.

(a) For the purpose of this section, a "working level" is defined as any combination of radon daughters in 1 liter of air which will result in the ultimate emission of 1.3 x 10million electron volts of potential alpha energy. The numerical value of the "working level" is derived from the alpha energy released by the total decay of short-lived radon daughter products in equilibrium with 100 pico-curies of radon 222 per liter of air. A working level month is defined as the exposure received by a worker breathing air at one working level concentration for 4weeks of 40 hours each.

(b)(1) Occupational exposure to radon daughters in mines shall be controlled so that no individual will receive an exposure of more than 2 working level months in any calendar quarter and no more than 4 working level months in any calendar year. Actual exposures shall be kept as far below these values as practicable.

(2) In enforcing this section, the Director of the Bureau of Labor Standards may at any stage approve variations in individual cases from the limitation set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to comply with the requirements of the Act upon a showing to the satisfaction of the Director by an employer having a mine with conditions resulting in an exposure of more than 4 working level months but not more than 12 working level months in any 12 consecutive months that (i) under the particular facts and circumstances involved the working conditions of the employees so exposed are such that their health and safety are protected, and (ii) the employer has a bona fide plan to reduce the levels of exposure to those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section as soon as practicable, but in no event later than January 1, 1971.

(3) Whenever a variation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is sought, a request therefor should be submitted in writing to the Director of the Bureau of Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, within 90 days following the end of the calendar quarter or year, as the case may be.

(c)(1) For uranium mines, records of environmental concentrations in the occupied parts of the mine, and of the time spent in each area by each person involved in underground work shall be established and maintained. These records shall be in sufficient detail to permit calculations of the exposures, in units of working level months, of the individuals and shall be available for inspection by the Secretary of Labor or his authorized agents.
