
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Rules Relating to Over-the-Counter Markets
##### ยง 240.15c3-1 Net capital requirements for brokers or dealers.
###### Non-marketable securities.

(vii)Deducting 100 percent of the carrying value in the case of securities or evidence of indebtedness in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer, for which there is no ready market, as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section, and securities, in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer, which cannot be publicly offered or sold because of statutory, regulatory or contractual arrangements or other restrictions.

(viii) Deducting, in the case of a broker or dealer that has open contractual commitments (other than those option positions subject to appendix A, ยง 240.15c3-1a), the respective deductions as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section or appendix B, ยง 240.15c3-1b, from the value (which shall be the market value whenever there is a market) of each net long and each net short position contemplated by any open contractual commitment in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer.

(A) The deduction for contractual commitments in those securities that are treated in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(J) of this section shall be 30 percent unless the class and issue of the securities subject to the open contractual commitment deduction are listed for trading on a national securities exchange or are designated as NASDAQ National Market System Securities.

(B) A broker or dealer that maintains in excess of $250,000 of net capital may add back to net worth up to $150,000 of any deduction computed under this paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(B).

(C) The deduction with respect to any single commitment shall be reduced by the unrealized profit in such commitment, in an amount not greater than the deduction provided for by this paragraph (or increased by the unrealized loss), in such commitment, and in no event shall an unrealized profit on any closed transactions operate to increase net capital.

(ix) Deducting from the contract value of each failed to deliver contract that is outstanding five business days or longer (21 business days or longer in the case of municipal securities) the percentages of the market value of the underlying security that would be required by application of the deduction required by paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section. Such deduction, however, shall be increased by any excess of the contract price of the failed to deliver contract over the market value of the underlying security or reduced by any excess of the market value of the underlying security over the contract value of the failed to deliver contract, but not to exceed the amount of such deduction. The designated examining authority for the broker or dealer may, upon application of the broker or dealer, extend for a period up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when it is satisfied that the extension is warranted. The designated examining authority upon expiration of the extension may extend for one additional period of up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when it is satisfied that the extension is warranted.

(x)(A) With respect to any transaction of a specialist in listed options, who is either not otherwise subject to the provisions of this section or is described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(N) of this section, for whose specialist account a broker or dealer acts as a guarantor, endorser, or carrying broker or dealer, such broker or dealer shall adjust its net worth by deducting as of noon of each business day the amounts computed as of the prior business day pursuant to ยง 240.15c3-1a. The required deductions may be reduced by any liquidating equity that exists in such specialist's market-maker account as of that time and shall be increased to the extent of any liquidating deficit in such account. Noon shall be determined according to the local time where the broker or dealer is headquartered. In no event shall excess equity in the specialist's market-maker account result in an increase of the net capital of any such guarantor, endorser, or carrying broker or dealer.
