
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Rules Relating to Over-the-Counter Markets
##### ยง 240.15c3-1a Options (Appendix A to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
###### 1,2

(C) Add the net short market value or deduct the long market value of listed options as recognized in the strategies enumerated in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(E)() and () of this section.

(iii) In computing net capital after the adjustments provided for in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, every broker or dealer shall deduct the percentages specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) for all listed option positions, positions covering the same underlying instrument and related instruments within the options' class or product group.

(A) Where a broker or dealer is short a call, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of ยง 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for such option reduced by its out-of-the-money amount, to the extent that such reduction does not operate to increase net capital. In no event shall this deduction be less than the greater of $250 for each short call option contract for 100 shares or 50% of the aforementioned percentage.

(B) Where a broker or dealer is short a put, deducting the percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of ยง 240.15c3-1 of the current market value of the underlying instrument for such option reduced by its out-of-the-money amount, to the extent that such reduction does not operate to increase net capital. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than the greater of $250 for each short put option contract for 100 shares or 50% of the aforementioned percentage.

(C) Where a broker or dealer is long puts or calls, deducting 50 percent of the market value of the net long put and call positions in the same options series.
