
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Rules Relating to Over-the-Counter Markets
##### § 240.15c3-1a Options (Appendix A to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
###### 2

() Where a broker or dealer is short a listed put and is also long a listed put in the same class of options contracts and the long option expires on the same date as or subsequent to the short option, the deduction, after the adjustments required in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be the amount by which the exercise value of the short put exceeds the exercise value of the long put. If the exercise value of the long put is equal to or greater than the exercise value of the short put, no deduction is required.

(c) With respect to transactions involving unlisted options, every broker or dealer shall determine the value of unlisted option positions in accordance with the provision of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of § 240.15c3-1, and shall deduct the percentages of all securities positions or unlisted options in the proprietary or other accounts of the broker or dealer specified in this paragraph (c). However, where computing the deduction required for a security position as if the security position had no related unlisted option position and positions in unlisted options as if uncovered would result in a lesser deduction from net worth, the broker or dealer may compute such deductions separately.

(1) Where a broker or dealer is short a call, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the security underlying such option reduced by any excess of the exercise value of the call over the current market value of the underlying security. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $250 for each option contract for 100 shares.

(2) Where a broker or dealer is short a put, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the security underlying the option reduced by any excess of the market value of the underlying security over the exercise value of the put. In no event shall the deduction provided by this paragraph be less than $250 for each option contract for 100 shares.

(3) Where a broker or dealer is short a call and long equivalent units of the underlying security, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security reduced by any excess of the current market value of the underlying security over the exercise value of the call. No reduction under this paragraph shall have the effect of increasing net capital.

(4) Where a broker or dealer is short a put and short equivalent units of the underlying security, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security reduced by any excess of the exercise value of the put over the market value of the underlying security. No such reduction shall have the effect of increasing net capital.

(5) Where a broker or dealer is long equivalent units of the underlying security, long a put written or endorsed by a broker or dealer and short a call in its proprietary or other accounts, deducting 5 percent (or 50 percent of such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the current market value of the underlying security.

(6) Where a broker or dealer is short equivalent units of the underlying security, long a call written or endorsed by a broker or dealer and short a put in his proprietary or other accounts, deducting 5 percent (or 50 percent of such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the market value of the underlying security.

(7) Where a broker or dealer is long a put or call endorsed or written by a broker or dealer, deducting 15 percent (or such other percentage required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) (A) through (K) of § 240.15c3-1) of the market value of the underlying security, not to exceed any value attributed to such option in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of § 240.15c3-1.
