
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Rules Relating to Over-the-Counter Markets
##### ยง 240.15c3-1d Satisfactory Subordination Agreements (Appendix D to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
###### Filing.

(6)(i)Two copies of any proposed subordination agreement (including nonconforming subordination agreements) shall be filed at least 10 days prior to the proposed execution date of the agreement with the Commission's Regional Office for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business or at such other time as the Regional Office for good cause shall accept such filing. Copies of the proposed agreement shall also be filed with the Examining Authority in such quantities and at such time as the Examining Authority may require. The broker or dealer shall also file with said parties a statement setting forth the name and address of the lender, the business relationship of the lender to the broker or dealer, and whether the broker or dealer carried funds or securities for the lender at or about the time the proposed agreement was so filed. All agreements shall be examined by the Commission's Regional Office or the Examining Authority with whom such agreement is required to be filed prior to their becoming effective. No proposed agreement shall be a satisfactory subordination agreement for the purposes of this section unless and until the Examining Authority has found the agreement acceptable and such agreement has become effective in the form found acceptable.

(ii) The broker or dealer need not file with the Regional Office for the region in which the broker or dealer maintains its principal place of business (if a Regional Office is not its Examining Authority) copies of any proposed subordination agreement or the statement described above if the Examining Authority for that broker or dealer has consented to file with the Commission periodic reports (not less than monthly) summarizing for the period, on a firm-by-firm basis, the subordination agreements it has approved for that period. Such reports should include at the minimum, the amount of the loan and its duration, the name of the lender and the business relationship of the lender to the broker or dealer.
