
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Other Reports
##### ยง 240.15d-20 Plain English presentation of specified information.
###### ยง 240.15g-100 Schedule 15G - Information to be included in the document distributed pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15g-2.
####### If the Schedule is sent electronically using a hyperlink to the SEC Web site,http://www.sec.gov/investor/schedule15g.htm.

3., the e-mail containing the hyperlink must have as a subject line: "Important Information on Penny Stocks." Immediately before the hyperlink, the text of the e-mail must reproduce the following statement in clear, easy-to-read type presented in a manner reasonably calculated to draw the customer's attention to the words: "We are required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to give you the following disclosure statement:It explains some of the risks of investing in penny stocks. Please read it carefully before you agree to purchase or sell a penny stock."

B. Regardless of how the Schedule is provided to the customer, the communication must also provide the name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the broker. E-mail messages may also include any privacy or confidentiality information that the broker routinely includes in e-mail messages sent to customers. No other information may be included in these communications, other than instructions on how to provide a signed and dated acknowledgement of receipt of the Schedule.

C. The document entitled "Important Information on Penny Stocks" must be distributed as Schedule 15G and must be no more than two pages in length if provided in paper form.

D. The disclosures made through the Schedule are in addition to any other disclosures that are required under the Federal securities laws.

E. Recipients of the document must not be charged any fee for the document.

F. The content of the Schedule is as follows:

[next page]

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires your broker to give this statement to you, and to obtain your signature to show that you have received it, before your first trade in a penny stock. This statement contains important information-and you should read it carefully before you sign it, and before you decide to purchase or sell a penny stock.

In addition to obtaining your signature, the SEC requires your broker to wait at least two business days after sending you this statement before executing your first trade to give you time to carefully consider your trade.

Penny stocks are low-priced shares of small companies. Penny stocks may trade infrequently-which means that it may be difficult to sell penny stock shares once you have them. Because it may also be difficult to find quotations for penny stocks, they may be impossible to accurately price. Investors in penny stock should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment.

While penny stocks generally trade over-the-counter, they may also trade on U.S. securities exchanges, facilities of U.S. exchanges, or foreign exchanges. You should learn about the market in which the penny stock trades to determine how much demand there is for this stock and how difficult it will be to sell. Be especially careful if your broker is offering to sell you newly issued penny stock that has no established trading market.

The securities you are considering have not been approved or disapproved by the SEC. Moreover, the SEC has not passed upon the fairness or the merits of this transaction nor upon the accuracy or adequacy of the information contained in any prospectus or any other information provided by an issuer or a broker or dealer.

In addition to this statement, your broker is required to give you a statement of your financial situation and investment goals explaining why his or her firm has determined that penny stocks are a suitable investment for you. In addition, your broker is required to obtain your agreement to the proposed penny stock transaction.
