
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### National and Affiliated Securities Associations
##### ยง 240.15Bc7-1 Availability of examination reports.

(a) Upon written request, copies of any report of an examination of a municipal securities dealer made by the Commission or furnished to it by an appropriate regulatory agency pursuant to section 17(c)(3) of the Act or by a registered securities association pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) of the Act shall be made available to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the "Board") by the Commission subject to the following limitations:

(1) The Board shall establish by rule and shall maintain adequate procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of any information made available to it by the Commission pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) of the Act;

(2) Information made available to the Board shall not identify any municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or associated person that is the subject of a non-public examination report.

(b) If information to be made available to the Board is furnished to the Commission on a separate form prepared by an appropriate regulatory agency other than the Commission or by a registered securities association, that form, rather than a copy of any report of an examination, will be made available to the Board, provided that the conditions set forth in this paragraph are satisfied. Within sixty days of every six month period ending May 31 and November 30, each appropriate regulatory agency or registered securities association making available information on a separate form shall furnish to the Commission two copies of a form containing the information set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section. The Commission shall make one copy of the form promptly available to the Board. Copies of any forms furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall not identify any municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or associated person that is the subject of an examination from which information was derived for the form; however, the Commission may obtain for its own use, upon request, the identity of any such examinee or the full examination reports. Furnished forms shall include the following information:

(1) The report period.

(2)(i) With respect to a registered securities association, the number of examinations that formed the basis of the report and, of these examinations, the number that were routine, special, and financial/operational.

(ii) With respect to an appropriate regulatory agency that is a bank agency, the number of examinations that formed the basis of the report and, of these examinations, the number that were routine, special, and financial/operational. The number of examinations that formed the basis of the report of bank dealers and the number of examinations of separately identifiable departments or divisions of banks effecting municipal securities transactions.

(3) Indications of the violations of each Board rule found in examinations that formed the basis for the report.

(4) Copies of public notices issued during the report period of any formal actions and non-public information regarding any actions taken on violations of Board rules.

(5) Any comments concerning any questionable practices relating to municipal securities activities, whether or not covered by provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, including the rules of the Board.

(6) Descriptions of any significant or recurring customer complaints relating to municipal securities activities received by the appropriate regulatory agency or registered securities association during the report period or by municipal securities dealers during the 12 month period preceding the examination.

(7) Description of any novel issues or interpretations arising under the Board's rules.

(8) Description of any changes to existing Board rules or additional rules that would improve the regulatory scheme for municipal securities professionals or assist in the enforcement of the Board's rules.

(c) Copies of any report of an examination of a municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer made by the Commission or furnished to it pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) or 17(c)(3) of the Act, or separate forms made available to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, will be maintained in a non-public file.
