
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Registration and Regulation of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap Participants
##### § 240.15Fb1-1. Signatures.

(a) Required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission (including, without limitation, signatories within the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) must be in typed form rather than manual format. Signatures in an HTML, XML or XBRL document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in a graphic or image file within the electronic filing. When used in connection with an electronic filing, the term "signature" means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of any letters or series of letters or characters comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature.

(b) Each signatory to an electronic filing (including, without limitation, each signatory to the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing ("authentication document"). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (b). Upon request, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph (b).

(c) A person required to provide a signature on an electronic submission (including, without limitation, each signatory to the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) may not have the form or certification signed on his or her behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or other form of confirming authority.

(d) Each manually or electronically signed signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing ("authentication document")-

(1) On Schedule F to Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, shall be retained by the filer until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no longer effective;

(2) On Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) shall be retained by the filer until at least three years after the Form was filed with the Commission.
