
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Registration and Regulation of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap Participants
##### ยง 240.15Fb2-1 Registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
###### Commission Decision.

(e)(1) The Commission may deny or grant ongoing registration to a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant based on a security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's application, filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The Commission will grant ongoing registration if it finds that the requirements of section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) are satisfied. The Commission may institute proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied if it does not or cannot make such finding or if the applicant is subject to a statutory disqualification (as described in sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A)-(F)), or the Commission is aware of inaccurate statements in the application. Such proceedings shall include notice of the grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for hearing. At the conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission shall grant or deny such registration.

(2) If an applicant that is a nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant has become conditionally registered in reliance on paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the applicant will remain conditionally registered until the Commission acts to grant or deny ongoing registration in accordance with (e)(1) of this section. If none of the future actions in paragraph (d)(3) that are included in an applicant's conditional certification and opinion of counsel occurs within 24 months of the compliance date for ยง 240.15Fb2-1, and there is not otherwise a basis that would provide the Commission with the assurances required by ยง 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) and by ยง 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(ii), the Commission may institute proceedings thereafter to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied, in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
