
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Registration and Regulation of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap Participants
##### ยง 240.15Fi-3 Security-based swap portfolio reconciliation.
###### Security-based swaps with entities other than security-based swap dealers or major security-based swap participants.

(b)Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it engages in portfolio reconciliation for all security-based swaps in which its counterparty is neither a security-based swap dealer nor a major security-based swap participant as follows.

(1) Each security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation including, if applicable, agreement on the selection of any third party service provider who may be performing the reconciliation.

(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by one or more third parties selected by the counterparties in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) The portfolio reconciliation will be required to be performed no less frequently than:

(i) Once each calendar quarter for each security-based swap portfolio that includes more than 100 security-based swaps at any time during the calendar quarter; and

(ii) Once annually for each security-based swap portfolio that includes no more than 100 security-based swaps at any time during the calendar year.

(4) Each security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancies in the valuation or material terms of each security-based swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise with a counterparty that is neither a security-based swap dealer nor major security-based swap participant in a timely fashion. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), a difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
