
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
##### § 240.17a-3 Records to be made by certain exchange members, brokers and dealers.
###### Provided,

(23) A record documenting the credit, market, and liquidity risk management controls established and maintained by the broker or dealer to assist it in analyzing and managing the risks associated with its business activities,that the records required by this paragraph (a)(23) need only be made if the broker or dealer has more than:

(i) $1,000,000 in aggregate credit items as computed under § 240.15c3-3a; or

(ii) $20,000,000 in capital, which includes debt subordinated in accordance with § 240.15c3-1d.

(24) A record of the date that each Form CRS was provided to each retail investor, including any Form CRS provided before such retail investor opens an account.

(25) A record of the daily calculation of the current exposure and, if applicable, the initial margin amount for each account of a counterparty required under § 240.18a-3(c).

(26) A record of compliance with possession or control requirements under § 240.15c3-3(p)(2).

(27) A record of the reserve computation required under § 240.15c3-3(p)(3).

(28) A record of each security-based swap transaction that is not verified under § 240.15Fi-2 within five business days of execution that includes, at a minimum, the unique transaction identifier and the counterparty's unique identification code.

(29) A record documenting that the broker or dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under § 240.15Fh-6.

(30) A record documenting that the broker or dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-5 and 240.15Fk-1.

(31)(i) A record of each security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3 or otherwise, including the dates of the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, the number of portfolio reconciliation discrepancies, the number of security-based swap valuation disputes (including the time-to-resolution of each valuation dispute and the age of outstanding valuation disputes, categorized by transaction and counterparty), and the name of the third-party entity performing the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, if any.

(ii) A copy of each notification required to be provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3(c).

(iii) A record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral portfolio compression exercise or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-4 or otherwise, including the dates of the offset or compression, the security-based swaps included in the offset or compression, the identity of the counterparties participating in the offset or compression, the results of the compression, and the name of the third-party entity performing the offset or compression, if any.

(32)-(34) [Reserved]

(35) For each retail customer to whom a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities is or will be provided:
