
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
##### § 240.17a-4 Records to be preserved by certain exchange members, brokers and dealers.
###### o

(16) Copies of documents used to make a reasonable determination with respect to special entities, including information relating to the financial status, the tax status, the investment or financing objectives of the special entity as required under section 15F(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78-10(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A)).

(c) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve for a period of not less than six years after the closing of any customer's account any account cards or records which relate to the terms and conditions with respect to the opening and maintenance of the account.

(d) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve during the life of the enterprise and of any successor enterprise all partnership articles or, in the case of a corporation, all articles of incorporation or charter, minute books, and stock certificate books (or, in the case of any other form of legal entity, all records such as articles of organization or formation, and minute books used for a purpose similar to those records required for corporations or partnerships), all Forms BD (§ 249.501 of this chapter), all Forms BDW (§ 249.501a of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-W (§ 249.1601 of this chapter), all amendments to these forms, and all licenses or other documentation showing the registration of the member, broker or dealer with any securities regulatory authority or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

(e) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must maintain and preserve in an easily accessible place:

(1) All records required under § 240.17a-3(a)(12) until at least three years after the associated person's employment and any other connection with the member, broker or dealer has terminated.

(2) All records required under § 240.17a-3(a)(13) until at least three years after the termination of employment or association of those persons required by § 240.17f-2 to be fingerprinted.

(3) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(15) during the life of the enterprise.

(4) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(14) for three years.

(5) All account record information required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(17) and all records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(35), in each case until at least six years after the earlier of the date the account was closed or the date on which the information was collected, provided, replaced, or updated.

(6) Each report which a securities regulatory authority or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has requested or required the member, broker or dealer to make and furnish to it pursuant to an order or settlement, and each securities regulatory authority, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or prudential regulator examination report until three years after the date of the report.

(7) Each compliance, supervisory, and procedures manual, including any updates, modifications, and revisions to the manual, describing the policies and practices of the member, broker or dealer with respect to compliance with applicable laws and rules, and supervision of the activities of each natural person associated with the member, broker or dealer until three years after the termination of the use of the manual.

(8) All reports produced to review for unusual activity in customer accounts until eighteen months after the date the report was generated. In lieu of maintaining the reports, a member, broker or dealer may produce promptly the reports upon request by a representative of a securities regulatory authority. If a report was generated in a computer system that has been changed in the most recent eighteen month period in a manner such that the report cannot be reproduced using historical data in the same format as it was originally generated, the report may be produced by using the historical data in the current system, but must be accompanied by a record explaining each system change which affected the reports. If a report is generated in a computer system that has been changed in the most recent eighteen month period in a manner such that the report cannot be reproduced in any format using historical data, the member, broker or dealer must promptly produce upon request a record of the parameters that were used to generate the report at the time specified by a representative of a securities regulatory authority, including a record of the frequency with which the reports were generated.

(9) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(23) until three years after the termination of the use of the risk management controls documented therein.

(10) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(24), as well as a copy of each Form CRS, until at least six years after such record or Form CRS is created.

(11) The written policies and procedures required pursuant to §§ 240.15Fi-3, 240.15Fi-4, and 240.15Fi-5 until three years after termination of the use of the policies and procedures.

(12)(i) Each written agreement with counterparties on the terms of portfolio reconciliation with those counterparties as required to be created under § 240.15Fi-3(a)(1) and (b)(1) until three years after the termination of the agreement and all transactions governed thereby.

(ii) Security-based swap trading relationship documentation with counterparties required to be created under § 240.15Fi-5 until three years after the termination of such documentation and all transactions governed thereby.

(iii) A record of the results of each audit required to be performed pursuant to § 240.15Fi-5(c) until three years after the conclusion of the audit.

(f) Subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (f), the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.17a-3 and this section may be immediately produced or reproduced by means of an electronic recordkeeping system or by means of micrographic media and be maintained and preserved for the required time in that form.

(1) For purposes of this paragraph (f):
