
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
##### ยง 240.17a-5 Reports to be made by certain brokers and dealers.
###### Statement regarding independent public accountant.

(2)(i) Every broker or dealer that is required to file annual reports under paragraph (d) of this section must file no later than December 10 of each year (or 30 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a broker or dealer, if earlier) a statement as prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located, and the principal office of the designated examining authority for the broker or dealer. The statement must be dated no later than December 1 (or 20 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a broker or dealer, if earlier). If the engagement of an independent public accountant is of a continuing nature, providing for successive engagements, no further filing is required. If the engagement is for a single year, or if the most recent engagement has been terminated or amended, a new statement must be filed by the required date.

(ii) The statement must be headed "Statement regarding independent public accountant under Rule 17a-5(f)(2)" and must contain the following information and representations:

(A) Name, address, telephone number, and registration number of the broker or dealer.

(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the independent public accountant.

(C) The date of the fiscal year of the annual reports of the broker or dealer covered by the engagement.

(D) Whether the engagement is for a single year or is of a continuing nature.

(E) A representation that the independent public accountant has undertaken the items enumerated in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(F) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, a representation that the broker or dealer agrees to allow representatives of the Commission or its designated examining authority, if requested in writing for purposes of an examination of the broker or dealer, to review the audit documentation associated with the reports of the independent public accountant filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, "audit documentation" has the meaning provided in standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The Commission anticipates that, if requested, it will accord confidential treatment to all documents it may obtain from an independent public accountant under this paragraph to the extent permitted by law.

(G) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, a representation that the broker or dealer agrees to allow the independent public accountant to discuss with representatives of the Commission and its designated examining authority, if requested in writing for purposes of an examination of the broker or dealer, the findings associated with the reports of the independent public accountant filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section.

(iii) If a broker or dealer neither clears transactions nor carries customer accounts, the broker or dealer is not required to include the representations in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(F) and (G) of this section.

(iv) Any broker or dealer that is not required to file reports prepared by an independent public accountant under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section must file a statement required under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section indicating the date as of which the unaudited reports will be prepared.
