
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
##### § 240.17a-12 Reports to be made by certain OTC derivatives dealers.
###### Annual filing of audited financial statements.

(b)(1)(i) Every OTC derivatives dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o) shall file annually, on a calendar or fiscal year basis, a report which shall be audited by a certified public accountant. Reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be as of the same fixed or determinable date each year, unless a change is approved in writing by the Commission.

(ii) An OTC derivatives dealer succeeding to and continuing the business of another OTC derivatives dealer need not file a report under this paragraph (b) as of a date in the fiscal or calendar year in which the succession occurs if the predecessor OTC derivatives dealer has filed a report in compliance with this paragraph (b) as of a date in such fiscal or calendar year.

(2) The annual audit report shall contain a Statement of Financial Condition (in a format and on a basis which is consistent with the total reported on the Statement of Financial Condition contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and a Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. Such statements shall be in a format which is consistent with such statements as contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II. If the Statement of Financial Condition filed in accordance with instructions to Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II, is not consolidated, a summary of financial data for subsidiaries not consolidated in the Part II Statement of Financial Condition as filed by the OTC derivatives dealer shall be included in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial condition reported on by the certified public accountant. The summary financial data shall include the assets, liabilities, and net worth or stockholders' equity of the unconsolidated subsidiaries.

(3) Supporting schedules shall include, from Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), a Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1.

(4) A reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, of the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1 contained in the audit report with the broker's or dealer's corresponding unaudited most recent Part II filing shall be filed with the report when material differences exist. If no material differences exist, a statement so indicating shall be filed.

(5) The annual audit report shall be filed not more than sixty days after the date of the financial statements.

(6) Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC.
