
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
##### ยง 240.17a-14 Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS.
###### Delivery of Form CRS.

(c)You must:

(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the earliest of:

(i) A recommendation of an account type, a securities transaction; or an investment strategy involving securities;

(ii) Placing an order for the retail investor; or

(iii) The opening of a brokerage account for the retail investor.

(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing customer your current Form CRS before or at the time you:

(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);

(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or

(iii) Recommend or provide a new brokerage service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.

(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your public website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.

(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing customer within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.

(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.
