
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
##### ยง 240.17Ad-5 Written inquiries and requests.
###### Telephone response.

(f)(1) A transfer agent may satisfy the written response requirements of this section by a telephone response to the inquirer if:

(i) The telephone response resolves that inquiry; and

(ii) The inquirer does not request a written response.

(2) When any person makes a written inquiry or request that would qualify under paragraph (e) of this section except that it fails to provide sufficient detail as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, a registered transfer agent may telephone the inquirer to obtain the necessary additional detail within the time periods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If the transfer agent does not receive the additional detail within ten business days, the transfer agent immediately shall make a written request for the additional information.

(g)(1) When any person makes a written inquiry or request which would qualify under paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section except that it fails to provide all of the information specified in those paragraphs, or requests information which refers to a time earlier than the time periods specified in those paragraphs, a registered transfer agent shall confirm promptly receipt of the inquiry or request and respond to it as soon as possible.

(2) When any person makes a written inquiry or request which would qualify under paragraph (e) of this section except that it fails to provide sufficient detail as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, a registered transfer agent must respond to the inquiry within the time periods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. A registered transfer agent may respond to such an inquiry in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section as though sufficient detail had been provided, or may return it to the inquirer, requesting the additional necessary details.
