
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
##### ยง 240.17Ad-10 Prompt posting of certificate detail to master securityholder files, maintenance of accurate securityholder files, communications between co-transfer agents and recordkeeping transfer agents, maintenance of current control book, retention of certificate detail and "buy-in" of physical over-issuance.
###### Provided, however,

(iii) With respect to all other recordkeeping transfer agents, five business days;That all securities transferred, purchased, redeemed or issued prior to record date, but posted subsequent thereto, shall be posted as of the record date.

(3) With respect to posting certificate detail from transfer journals received by the recordkeeping transfer agent from a co-transfer agent, the time frames set forth in paragraph (a)(2) shall commence upon receipt of those journals by the recordkeeping transfer agent.

(b) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall maintain and keep current an accurate master securityholder file and subsidiary files. If such transfer agent has any record difference, its master securityholder file and subsidiary files must accurately represent all relevant debits and credits until the record difference is resolve. The recordkeeping transfer agent shall exercise diligent and continuous attention to resolve all record differences.

(c)(1) Every co-transfer agent shall dispatch or mail promptly to the recordkeeping transfer agent a record of debits and credits for every security transferred or issued. For the purposes of this paragraph, "promptly" means within two business days following transfer of each security, and, with respect to transfers occurring within five business days of record date, daily.

(2) Within three business days following the end of each month, every co-transfer agent shall mail to the recordkeeping transfer agent for each issue of securities for which it acts as a co-transfer agent, a report setting forth:

(i) The principal dollar amount of debt securities or the number of shares and related market value of equity securities comprising any buy-in executed by the co-transfer agent during the preceding month pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; and

(ii) The reason for the buy-in.

(d) Every co-transfer agent shall respond promptly to all inquiries from the recordkeeping transfer agent regarding records required to be dispatched or mailed by the co-transfer agent pursuant to ยง 240.17Ad-10(c). For the purposes of this paragraph, "promptly" means within five business days of receipt of an inquiry from a recordkeeping transfer agent.

(e) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall maintain and keep current an accurate control book for each issue of securities. A change in the control book shall not be made except upon written authorization from a duly authorized agent of the issuer.

(f) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall retain a record of all certificate detail deleted from the master securityholder file for a period of six years from the date of deletion. In lieu of maintaining a hard copy, a recordkeeping transfer agent may comply with this paragraph by complying with ยง 240.17Ad-7(f) or ยง 240.17Ad-7(g).

(g)(1) A registered transfer agent, in the event of any actual physical overissuance that such transfer agent caused and of which it has knowledge, shall, within 60 days of the discovery of such overissuance, buy in securities equal to the number of shares in the case of equity securities or the principal dollar amount in the case of debt securities. During the sixty-day period, the registered transfer agent shall devote diligent attention to resolving the overissuance and recovering the certificates. This paragraph requires a buy-in only by the transfer agent that erroneously issued the certificate(s) giving rise to the physical overissuance, and applies only to those physical overissuances created by transfers or issuances subsequent to September 30, 1983.

(2) If a transfer agent obtains a letter from the party holding the overissued certificates that confirms that the overissued certificate(s) will be returned to the transfer agent not later than thirty days after the expiration of the sixty-day period, the transfer agent need not buy in securities by the sixtieth day. If, however, the certificate(s) are not returned to the transfer agent within the additional thirty-day period, the transfer agent immediately must execute the buy-in in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(3) If the certificates involved are covered by a surety bond indemnifying the transfer agent for all expenses incurred as a result of actual overissuance, the transfer agent need not buy in the securities. The transfer agent, however, shall devote diligent attention to resolving the overissuance and recovering the certificates.
