
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
##### ยง 240.17Ad-16 Notice of assumption or termination of transfer agent services.

(a) A registered transfer agent that ceases to perform transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including a registered transfer agent that ceases to perform transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities because of a merger or acquisition by another transfer agent, shall send written notice of such termination to the appropriate qualified registered securities depository on or before the later of ten calendar days prior to the effective date of such termination or the day the transfer agent is notified of the effective date of such termination. Such notice shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and Financial Industry Number Standard ("FINS") number of the transfer agent ceasing to perform the transfer agent services for the issuer; the issuer's name; the issue or issues handled and their CUSIP number(s); and if known, the name, address, and telephone number of the transfer agent that thereafter will provide transfer services for the issuer. If no successor transfer agent is known, the notice shall include the name and address of a contact person at the issuer.

(b) A registered transfer agent that changes its name or address or that assumes transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including a transfer agent that assumes transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities because of a merger or acquisition of another transfer agent, shall send written notice of such to the appropriate qualified registered securities depository on or before the later of ten calendar days prior to the effective date of such change in status or the day the transfer agent is notified of the effective date of such change in status. A notice regarding a change of name or address shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and FINS number of the transfer agent and the location where certificates are received for transfer. A notice regarding the assumption of transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including assumption of transfer agent services resulting from the merger or acquisition of another transfer agent, shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and FINS number of the transfer agent assuming the transfer agent services for the issuer; the issuer's name; and the issue or issues handled and their CUSIP number(s).

(c) The notice described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be delivered by means of secure communication. For purposes of this section, secure communication shall include telegraph, overnight mail, facsimile, or any other form of secure communication.

(d)(1) The appropriate qualified registered securities depository that receives notices pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall deliver within 24 hours a copy of such notices to each qualified registered securities depository. A qualified registered securities depository that receives notice pursuant to this section shall deliver a copy of such notices to its own participants within 24 hours.

(2) A qualified registered securities depository may comply with its notice requirements under paragraph (d)(1) of this section by making available the notice of all material information from the notice within 24 hours in a manner set forth in the rules of the qualified registered securities depository.

(3) A qualified registered securities depository shall maintain such notices for a period of not less than two years, the first six months in an easily accessible place. Such notice shall be made available to the Commission or other persons as the Commission may designate by order.

(4) A registered transfer agent that provides notice pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall maintain such notice for a period of not less than two years, the first six months in an easily accessible place.
