
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
##### ยง 240.18a-1 Net capital requirements for security-based swap dealers for which there is not a prudential regulator.
###### Miscellaneous provisions.

(4)(i) Excess net capital is that amount in excess of the amount required under paragraph (a) of this section. For the purposes of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section, a security-based swap dealer may use the amount of excess net capital and deductions required under paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) and ยง 240.18a-1a reported in its most recently required filed Part II of Form X-17A-5 for the purposes of calculating the effect of a projected withdrawal, advance or loan relative to excess net capital or deductions. The security-based swap dealer must assure itself that the excess net capital or the deductions reported on the most recently required filed Part II of Form X-17A-5 have not materially changed since the time such report was filed.

(ii) The term equity capital includes capital contributions by partners, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings or other capital accounts. The term equity capital does not include securities in the securities accounts of partners and balances in limited partners' capital accounts in excess of their stated capital contributions.

(iii) Paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section shall not preclude a security-based swap dealer from making required tax payments or preclude the payment to partners of reasonable compensation, and such payments shall not be included in the calculation of withdrawals, advances, or loans for purposes of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(iv) For the purpose of this paragraph (h), any transactions between a security-based swap dealer and a stockholder, partner, employee or affiliate that results in a diminution of the security-based swap dealer's net capital shall be deemed to be an advance or loan of net capital.
