
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 4 - COMMODITY POOL OPERATORS AND COMMODITY TRADING ADVISORS
#### Subpart C - Commodity Trading Advisors
##### ยง 4.33 Recordkeeping.

Each commodity trading advisor registered or required to be registered under the Act must make and keep the following books and records in an accurate, current and orderly manner at its main business office and in accordance with ยง 1.31. If the commodity trading advisor's main business office is located outside the United States, its territories or possessions, then upon the request of a Commission representative the trading advisor must provide such books and records as requested at the place designated by the representative in the United States, its territories or possessions within 72 hours after receipt of the request.

(a) Concerning the clients and subscribers of the commodity trading advisor:

(1) The name and address of each client and each subscriber.

(2) The acknowledgement specified in ยง 4.31(b).

(3) All powers of attorney and other documents, or copies thereof, authorizing the commodity trading advisor to direct the commodity interest account of a client or subscriber.

(4) All other written agreements, or copies thereof, entered into by the commodity trading advisor with any client or subscriber.

(5) A list or other record of all commodity interest accounts of clients directed by the commodity trading advisor and of all transactions effected therefor.

(6) Copies of each confirmation or acknowledgment of a commodity interest transaction, and each purchase and sale statement and each monthly statement received from a futures commission merchant, a retail foreign exchange dealer or a swap dealer.

(7) The original or a copy of each report, letter, circular, memorandum, publication, writing, advertisement or other literature or advice (including the texts of standardized oral presentations and of radio, television, seminar or similar mass media presentations) distributed or caused to be distributed by the commodity trading advisor to any existing or prospective client or subscriber, showing the first date of distribution if not otherwise shown on the document.

(b) Concerning the commodity trading advisor:
