
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
##### § 240.18a-7 Reports to be made by certain security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
###### Financial report.

(2)The financial report must contain:

(i)(A) A Statement of Financial Condition, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. The statements must be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and must be in a format that is consistent with the statements contained in Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter).

(B) If there is other comprehensive income in the period(s) presented, the financial report must contain a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of this chapter) in place of a Statement of Income.

(ii) Supporting schedules that include, from Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), a Computation of Net Capital under § 240.18a-1, a Computation of Tangible Net Worth under § 240.18a-2, a Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under § 240.18a-4a (Exhibit A of § 240.18a-4), and Information Relating to the Possession or Control Requirements for Security-Based Swap Customers under § 240.18a-4, as applicable.

(iii) If any of the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.18a-1, the Computation of Tangible Net Worth under § 240.18a-2, or the Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under Exhibit A of § 240.18a-4 in the financial report is materially different from the corresponding computation in the most recent Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) filed by the registrant pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, between the computation in the financial report and the computation in the most recent Part II of Form X-17A-5 filed by the registrant. If no material differences exist, a statement so indicating must be included in the financial report.
