
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
##### ยง 240.18a-7 Reports to be made by certain security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
###### Statement regarding independent public accountant.

(2)(i) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that is required to file annual reports under paragraph (c) of this section must file no later than December 10 of each year (or 30 days after effective date of its registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant if earlier) a statement as prescribed in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located. The statement must be dated no later than December 1 (or 20 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, if earlier). If the engagement of an independent public accountant is of a continuing nature, providing for successive engagements, no further filing is required. If the engagement is for a single year, or if the most recent engagement has been terminated or amended, a new statement must be filed by the required date.

(ii) The statement must be headed "Statement regarding independent public accountant under Rule 18a-7(e)(2)" and must contain the following information and representations:

(A) Name, address, telephone number and registration number of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.

(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the independent public accountant.

(C) The date of the fiscal year of the annual reports of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant covered by the engagement.

(D) Whether the engagement is for a single year or is of a continuing nature.

(E) A representation that the independent public accountant has undertaken the items enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
