
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Suspension and Expulsion of Exchange Members
##### ยง 240.19b-5 Temporary exemption from the filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act.
###### Public availability of pilot trading system rules.

(10)The self-regulatory organization makes publicly available all trading rules and procedures, including those established under paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.

(11) Every notice or amendment filed pursuant to this paragraph (e) shall constitute a "report" within the meaning of sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a), (15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a)), and any other applicable provisions of the Act. All notices or reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (e) shall be deemed to be confidential until the pilot trading system commences operation.

(f)(1) A self-regulatory organization shall request Commission approval, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), for any rule change relating to the operation of a pilot trading system by submitting Form 19b-4, 17 CFR 249.819, no later than two years after the commencement of operation of such pilot trading system, or shall cease operation of the pilot trading system.

(2) Simultaneous with a request for Commission approval pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), a self-regulatory organization may request Commission approval pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)), for any rule change relating to the operation of a pilot trading system by submitting Form 19b-4, 17 CFR 249.819, effective immediate upon filing, to continue operations of such trading system for a period not to exceed six months.

(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (e) of this section, rule changes with respect to pilot trading systems operated by a self-regulatory organization shall not be exempt from the rule filing requirements of section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), if the Commission determines, after notice to the SRO and opportunity for the SRO to respond, that exemption of such rule changes is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors.
