
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Suspension and Expulsion of Exchange Members
##### ยง 240.19d-1 Notices by self-regulatory organizations of final disciplinary actions, denials, bars, or limitations respecting membership, association, participation, or access to services, and summary suspensions.
###### Notice of summary suspension of membership, participation, or association, or summary limitation or prohibition of access to services.

(i)If any self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency summarily suspends a member, participant, or person associated with a member, or summarily limits or prohibits any person with respect to access to or services offered by the organization or (in the case of a national securities exchange or a registered securities association) a member thereof pursuant to the provisions of section 6(d)(3), 15A(h)(3) or 17A(b)(5) (C) of the Act, such organization shall, within 24 hours of the effectiveness of such summary suspension, limitation or prohibition notify the Commission of such action, which notice shall contain at least the following information:

(1) The name of the person concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the organization;

(2) The date upon which such summary action has or will become effective;

(3) If such summary action is based upon the provisions of section 6(d)(3)(A), 15A(h)(3)(A), or 17A(b)(5) (C)(i) of the Act, a copy of the relevant order or decision of the self-regulatory organization;

(4) If such summary action is based upon the provisions of section 6(d)(3) (B) or (C), 15A(h)(3) (B) or (C), or 17A(b)(5)(C) (ii) or (iii) of the Act, a statement describing, as appropriate:

(i) The financial or operating difficulty of the member or participant upon which such organization determined the member or particpant could not be permitted to continue to do business with safety to investors, creditors, other members or participants, or the organization;

(ii) The pertinent failure to meet qualification requirements or other prerequisites for access and the basis upon which such organization determined that the person concerned could not be permitted to have access with safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the organization; or

(iii) The default of any delivery of funds or securities to a clearing agency by a participant.

(5) The nature and effective date of the suspension, limitation or prohibition; and

(6) Such other matters as the organization deems relevant.

(j) Notice of limitation or prohibition of access to services by delisting of security. Any national securities exchange for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency that delists a security pursuant to section 12(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(d)), and Sec. 240.12d2-2 must file a notice with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.

(k) Contents of notice required by paragraph (j) of this section. The national securities exchange shall file notice pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section on Form 25 (ยง 249.25 of this chapter). Form 25 shall serve as notification to the Commission of such limitation or prohibition of access to services. The national securities exchange must attach a copy of its delisting determination to Form 25 and file Form 25 with the attachment on EDGAR.
