
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Inspection and Publication of Information Filed Under the Act
##### ยง 240.24b-2 Nondisclosure of information filed with the Commission and with any exchange.
###### et. seq.,

(g) An SCI entity (as defined in ยง 242.1000 of this chapter) shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format on Form SCI pursuant to Regulation SCI, ยง 242.1000and, in lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, may request confidential treatment of all information provided on Form SCI by completing Section IV of Form SCI.

(h) A security-based swap data repository shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format pursuant to section 13(n) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, a security-based swap data repository shall request confidential treatment electronically for any material filed in electronic format pursuant to section 13(n) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder.

(i) An institutional investment manager shall omit the confidential portion from the material publicly filed in electronic format pursuant to section 13(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and the rules and regulations thereunder. The institutional investment manager shall indicate in the appropriate place in the material publicly filed that the confidential portion has been so omitted and filed separately with the Commission. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, an institutional investment manager shall request confidential treatment electronically pursuant to section 13(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and the rules and regulations thereunder.
