
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 5 - OFF-EXCHANGE FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS
#### § 5.7 Minimum financial requirements for retail foreign exchange dealers and futures commission merchants offering or engaging in retail forex transactions.
##### Provided, however,

(v)(A) In computing adjusted net capital, the capital deductions set forth in § 1.17(c)(5)(ii) of this chapter shall apply to retail forex transactions other than options. The capital deductions which apply are six percent for net positions in Euros, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or Swiss francs and 20 percent for net positions in all other foreign currencies,That there shall be no capital deductions for retail forex transactions covered (as defined in § 1.17(j) of this chapter) by the applicant or registrant by open futures contracts to the extent such futures contracts are not otherwise designated as cover for any other net capital purposes. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(A), such retail forex transactions shall be treated as if they were inventory and cover were therefore applicable. A retail foreign exchange dealer or futures commission merchant may not use an affiliate (unless approved by the firm's designated self-regulatory organization) or any person that is considered unregulated under the rules of the firm's designated self-regulatory organization to cover its currency positions for purposes of this section.

(B) In computing adjusted net capital, the capital deductions set forth in § 1.17(c)(5)(vi) of this chapter shall apply to all retail forex transactions that are options.

(C) For the purpose of applying capital deductions on open proprietary futures positions under § 1.17(c)(5)(x) of this chapter, net or individual positions in retail forex transactions shall not constitute cover under § 1.17(j) for the purpose of applying such charges.

(c) An applicant or registrant must prepare, and keep current, ledgers or other similar records which show or summarize, with appropriate references to supporting documents, each transaction affecting the applicant's or registrant's asset, liability, income, expense and capital accounts, and in which (except as otherwise permitted in writing by the Commission) all the applicant's or registrant's asset, liability and capital accounts are classified into the account classification subdivisions specified on Form 1-FR-FCM. Each applicant or registrant shall prepare and keep current such records.

(d) An applicant or registrant must make and keep as a record in accordance with § 5.14 of this part formal computations of its adjusted net capital and of its minimum financial requirements pursuant to this section as of the close of business each month and on other such dates called for by the Commission, the National Futures Association, or another self-regulatory organization of which the firm is a member. Such computations must be completed and made available for inspection by any representative of the Commission, the National Futures Association, a self-regulatory organization of which the firm is a member, or the United States Department of Justice commencing the first month-end after the date the application for registration is filed.
