
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### ยง 240.14a-101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.
##### see https://www.sec.gov/ofm/Article/feeamt.html.

For the current fee rate,

C. Explanations.

Disclose the (i) title of each class of securities to which the transaction applies; (ii) aggregate number of securities to which the transaction apples; and (iii) per unit price or other underlying value of the transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined). If not otherwise explained in response to these instructions, disclose specific details relating to the fee calculation as necessary to clarify the information presented in each table, including references to the applicable provisions of Rule 0-11 (ยง 240.0-11 of this chapter). All disclosure these Instructions require that is not specifically required to be presented in tabular format must appear in narrative format immediately after the table(s) to which it corresponds.

D. Submission Method.

If a filing fee exhibit is required to be provided pursuant to this Item 25(b), it must be submitted as required by Rule 408 of Regulation S-T (ยง 232.408 of this chapter).

2. Table 1: Transaction Valuation Table and Related Disclosure.

A. Fees to Be Paid and Fees Previously Paid.

i. Fees to Be Paid.

Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item "Fees to Be Paid" as follows:

c. Initial Filings.

For an initial filing on this schedule, provide the required information for the total transaction valuation.

d. Amendments with Then-Current Total Transaction Valuation Higher than Highest Total Transaction Valuation Previously Reported.

For amendments to this schedule that reflect a then-current total transaction valuation higher than the highest total transaction valuation previously reported, provide the required information for the incremental increase.

ii. Fees Previously Paid.

Provide the information Table 1 requires for the line item "Fees Previously Paid" for the prior initial filing or amendment to this schedule that reflected a then-current total transaction valuation that was the highest total transaction valuation previously reported.

B. Other Tabular Information.

Provide the following information in the table for the line items "Fees to be Paid" and "Fees Previously Paid", as applicable:

i. The proposed maximum aggregate value of the transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11;

ii. The fee rate; and

iii. The filing fee due without regard to any previous payments or offsets.

C. Totals.

i. Total Transaction Valuation.

Provide the sum of the proposed maximum aggregate values for the line items "Fees to Be Paid" and "Fees Previously Paid".

ii. Total Fees Due for Filing.

Provide the sum of the fees due without regard to any previous payments or offsets for the line items "Fees to be Paid" and "Fees Previously Paid."

iii. Total Fees Previously Paid.

Provide the aggregate of filing fees previously paid with this filing.

iv. Total Fee Offsets.

Provide the aggregate of the fee offsets that are claimed in Table 2 pursuant to Instruction 3.

v. Net Fee Due.

Provide the difference between (a) the total fees due for this schedule from the Total Fees Due for Filing row; and (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate of filing fees previously paid from the Total Fees Previously Paid row; and (ii) the aggregate fee offsets claimed from the Total Fee Offsets row.

D. Narrative Disclosure.

Explain how the transaction valuation was determined.

3. Table 2: Fee Offset Claims and Sources.

A. Terminology.
