
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### ยง 240.14a-101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.
##### See

For purposes of this Instruction 3 and Table 2, the term "submission" means any (i) initial filing of, or amendment (pre-effective or post-effective), to a fee-bearing document; or (ii) fee-bearing form of prospectus filed under Rule 424 under the Securities Act (ยง 230.424 of this chapter), in all cases that was accompanied by a contemporaneous fee payment. For purposes of these instructions to Table 2, a contemporaneous fee payment is the payment of a required fee that is satisfied through the actual transfer of funds, and does not include any amount of a required fee satisfied through a claimed fee offset. Instruction 3.B.ii requires a filer that claims a fee offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2) to identify previous submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which the fee offsets claimed on this filing can be traced.Instruction 3.C for an example.

B. Rule 0-11(a)(2).

If relying on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to offset some or all of the filing fee due on this schedule by amounts paid in connection with earlier filings (other than this Schedule 14A) relating to the same transaction, provide the following information:

i. Fee Offset Claims.

For each earlier filed Securities Act registration statement or Exchange Act document relating to the same transaction from which a fee offset is being claimed, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item "Fee Offset Claims". The "Fee Offset Claimed" column requires the dollar amount of the previously paid filing fee to be offset against the currently due fee.

Note to Instruction 3.B.i.

If claiming an offset from a Securities Act registration statement, provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the claimed offset.

ii. Fee Offset Sources.

With respect to amounts claimed as an offset under Rule 0-11(a)(2), identify those submissions with contemporaneous fee payments that are the original source to which those amounts can be traced. For each submission identified, provide the information that Table 2 requires for the line item "Fee Offset Sources". The "Fee Paid with Fee Offset Source" column requires the dollar amount of the contemporaneous fee payment made with respect to each identified submission that is the source of the fee offset claimed pursuant to Rule 0-11(a)(2).

C. Fee Offset Source Submission Identification Example.

A filer:

- Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X1 (assigned file number 333-123456) with a fee payment of $10,000;

- Files pre-effective amendment number 1 to the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 2/15/20X1 with a fee payment of $15,000 and the registration statement goes effective on 2/20/20X1;

- Initially files a registration statement on Form S-1 on 1/15/20X4 (assigned file number 333-123467) with a fee payment of $25,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $10,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the previously filed Form S-1 (333-123456) and apply it to the $35,000 filing fee due and the registration statement goes effective on 2/15/20X4.

- Initially files a registration statement related to a tender offer on Form S-4 (assigned file number 333-123478) on 1/15/20X7 with a fee payment of $15,000 and relies on Rule 457(p) to claim an offset of $30,000 related to the unsold securities registered on the most recently effective Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.

- Initially files a Schedule TO related to the same tender offer on 1/22/20X7 and relies on Rule 0-11(a)(2) to claim an offset of $45,000 from the fee paid directly and by offset claimed on the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed 1/15/20X7 and apply it to the $45,000 filing fee due.

For the Schedule TO filed on 1/22/20X7, the filer can satisfy the submission identification requirement when it claims the $45,000 fee offset from the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 by referencing any combination of the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7, the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4, the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 or the initial filing of the Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 in relation to which contemporaneous fee payments were made equal to $45,000. One example could be:

- The Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 in relation to the payment of $15,000 made with that submission;

- the Form S-1 (333-123467) filed on 1/15/20X4 in relation to the payment of $25,000 made with that submission; and

- the pre-effective amendment to the Form S-1 (333-123456) filed on 2/15/20X1 in relation to the payment of $5,000 out of the payment of $15,000 made with that submission (it would not matter if the filer cited to this pre-effective amendment and/or the initial submission of this Form S-1 (333-123456) on 1/15/20X1 as long as singly or together they were cited as relating to a total of $5,000 in this example).

In this example, the filer could not satisfy the submission identification requirement solely by citing to the Form S-4 (333-123478) filed on 1/15/20X7 because even though the offset claimed and available from that filing was $45,000, the contemporaneous fee payment made with that filing ($15,000) was less than the offset being claimed. As a result, the filer must also identify a prior submission or submissions with an aggregate of contemporaneous fee payment(s) of $30,000 as the original source(s) to which the rest of the claimed offset can be traced.
