
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 5 - OFF-EXCHANGE FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS
#### ยง 5.12 Financial reports of retail foreign exchange dealers.
##### Election of fiscal year.

(f)(1) An applicant wishing to establish a fiscal year other than the calendar year may do so by notifying the National Futures Association of its election of such fiscal year, in writing, concurrently with the filing of the Form 1-FR-FCM pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but in no event may such fiscal year end more than one year from the date of the Form 1-FR-FCM filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. An applicant that does not so notify the National Futures Association will be deemed to have elected the calendar year as its fiscal year.

(2)(i) A registrant must continue to use its elected fiscal year, calendar or otherwise, unless a change in such fiscal year has been approved pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2).

(ii) A registrant may file with its designated self-regulatory organization an application to change its fiscal year, a copy of which the registrant must file with the Commission. The application shall be approved or denied in writing by the registrant's designated self-regulatory organization. The registrant must file immediately with the Commission a copy of any notice it receives from its designated self-regulatory organization to approve or deny the registrant's application to change its fiscal year. A written notice of approval shall become effective upon the filing by the registrant of a copy with the Commission, and a written notice of denial shall be effective as of the date of the notice.

(g) In the event a retail foreign exchange dealer or applicant for registration as a retail foreign exchange dealer finds that it cannot file its Form 1-FR-FCM for any period within the time specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section without substantial undue hardship, it may request approval for an extension of time by filing an application for an extension of time with, in the case of a registrant, its designated self-regulatory organization, or, in the case of an applicant, the National Futures Association. The registrant or applicant also must file a copy of its application for an extension of time with the Commission. The application shall be approved or denied in writing by the National Futures Association or designated self-regulatory organization, as applicable. The registrant or applicant must file immediately with the Commission a copy of any notice it receives approving or denying the request for extension of time. A written notice of approval shall become effective upon the filing by the registrant or applicant of a copy with the Commission, and a written notice of denial shall be effective as of the date of the notice.
