
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 242 - REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS, AND SBSR AND CUSTOMER MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
#### Regulation NMS - Regulation of the National Market System
##### § 242.614 Registration and responsibilities of competing consolidators.
###### Responsibilities of competing consolidators.

(d)Each competing consolidator shall:

(1) Collect from each national securities exchange and national securities association, either directly or indirectly, any information with respect to quotations for and transactions in NMS stocks as provided in § 242.603(b) that is necessary to create a consolidated market data product, as defined in § 242.600(b)(20).

(2) Calculate and generate a consolidated market data product, as defined in § 242.600(b)(20), from the information collected pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) Make a consolidated market data product, as defined in § 242.600(b)(20), as timestamped as required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section and including the national securities exchange and national securities association data generation timestamp required to be provided by the national securities exchange and national securities association participants by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, available to subscribers on a consolidated basis on terms that are not unreasonably discriminatory.

(4) Timestamp the information collected pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section upon:

(i) Receipt from each national securities exchange and national securities association;

(ii) Receipt of such information at its aggregation mechanism; and

(iii) Dissemination of a consolidated market data product to subscribers.

(5) Within 15 calendar days after the end of each month, publish prominently on its website monthly performance metrics, as defined by the effective national market system plan(s) for NMS stocks, that shall include at least the information in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. All information must be publicly posted in downloadable files and must remain free and accessible (without any encumbrances or restrictions) by the general public on the website for a period of not less than three years from the initial date of posting.

(i) Capacity statistics;

(ii) Message rate and total statistics;

(iii) System availability;

(iv) Network delay statistics; and

(v) Latency statistics for the following, with distribution statistics up to the 99.99th percentile:

(A) When a national securities exchange or national securities association sends an inbound message to a competing consolidator network and when the competing consolidator network receives the inbound message;

(B) When the competing consolidator network receives the inbound message and when the competing consolidator network sends the corresponding consolidated message to a subscriber; and

(C) When a national securities exchange or national securities association sends an inbound message to a competing consolidator network and when the competing consolidator network sends the corresponding consolidated message to a subscriber.

(6) Within 15 calendar days after the end of each month, publish prominently on its website the information in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (v) of this section. All information must be publicly posted and must remain free and accessible (without any encumbrances or restrictions) by the general public on the website for a period of not less than three years from the initial date of posting.

(i) Data quality issues;

(ii) System issues;

(iii) Any clock synchronization protocol utilized;

(iv) For the clocks used to generate the timestamps described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the clock drift averages and peaks, and the number of instances of clock drift greater than 100 microseconds; and

(v) Vendor alerts.

(7) Keep and preserve at least one copy of all documents, including all correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and such other records as shall be made or received by it in the course of its business as such and in the conduct of its business. Competing consolidators shall keep all such documents for a period of no less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.

(8) Upon request of any representative of the Commission, promptly furnish to the possession of such representative copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by it.

(9) Each competing consolidator that is not required to comply with the requirements of §§ 242.1000 through 242.1007 regarding systems compliance and integrity (Regulation SCI) shall comply with the following:
