
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 242 - REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS, AND SBSR AND CUSTOMER MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
#### § 242.301 Requirements for alternative trading systems.
##### Notice.

(2)(i) The alternative trading system shall file an initial operation report on Form ATS, § 249.637 of this chapter, in accordance with the instructions therein, at least 20 days prior to commencing operation as an alternative trading system.

(ii) The alternative trading system shall file an amendment on Form ATS at least 20 calendar days prior to implementing a material change to the operation of the alternative trading system.

(iii) If any information contained in the initial operation report filed under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section becomes inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously reported to the Commission as an amendment on Form ATS, the alternative trading system shall file an amendment on Form ATS correcting such information within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter in which the alternative trading system has operated.

(iv) The alternative trading system shall promptly file an amendment on Form ATS correcting information previously reported on Form ATS after discovery that any information filed under paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section was inaccurate when filed.

(v) The alternative trading system shall promptly file a cessation of operations report on Form ATS in accordance with the instructions therein upon ceasing to operate as an alternative trading system.

(vi) Every notice or amendment filed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) shall constitute a "report" within the meaning of sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a), (15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a)), and any other applicable provisions of the Act.

(vii) The reports provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be considered filed upon receipt by the Division of Trading and Markets, at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. Duplicate originals of the reports provided for in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section must be filed with surveillance personnel designated as such by any self-regulatory organization that is the designated examining authority for the alternative trading system pursuant to § 240.17d-1 of this chapter simultaneously with filing with the Commission. Duplicates of the reports required by paragraph (b)(9) of this section shall be provided to surveillance personnel of such self-regulatory authority upon request. All reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) and paragraph (b)(9) of this section shall be deemed confidential when filed.

(viii) An NMS Stock ATS that is operating pursuant to an initial operation report on Form ATS on file with the Commission as of January 7, 2019 ("Legacy NMS Stock ATS") shall be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section until that ATS files an initial Form ATS-N with the Commission pursuant to § 242.304(a)(1)(iv)(A). Thereafter, the Legacy NMS Stock ATS shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304. An alternative trading system that trades NMS stocks and securities other than NMS stocks shall be subject to the requirements of § 242.304 of this chapter with respect to NMS stocks and paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to non-NMS stocks. As of January 7, 2019, an entity seeking to operate as an NMS Stock ATS shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section and shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304.
