
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 10 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 10.12 Service and filing of documents; form and execution.
###### How service is made.

(2)Service shall be made by:

(i) Personal service;

(ii) First-class or a more expeditious form of United States mail or an overnight or similar commercial delivery service;

(iii) Facsimile ("fax"); or

(iv) Electronic mail ("email").

(v) Service shall be complete at the time of personal service; upon deposit in the mail or with a similar commercial package delivery service of a properly addressed document for which all postage or delivery service fees have been paid; or upon transmission by fax or email. Where a party effects service by mail or similar package delivery service (but not by fax or email), the time within which the party being served may respond shall be extended by five (5) days. Service by fax or email shall be permitted at the discretion of the Presiding Officer, with the parties' consent. Signed documents that are served by email must be in PDF or other non-alterable form.

(3) Service by email or fax shall be permitted at the discretion of the Presiding Officer, with the parties' consent. The consent of a party must specify the email address or fax number to be used. Signed documents that are served by email must be in PDF or other non-alterable form.

(4) Service will be complete at the time of personal service; upon deposit in the mail or with an overnight or similar commercial delivery service of a properly addressed document for which all postage or delivery service fees have been paid; or upon transmission by fax or email. Service by email or by fax will not be effective if the party making service learns that the attempted service did not reach the person to be served.

(5) Where service is effected by mail or a commercial delivery service (but not by fax or email), the time within which the person being served may respond shall be extended by five (5) days.
