
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 260 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
#### Rule Under Section 310
##### § 260.10b-4 Application for stay of trustee's duty to resign pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act.

(a) Three copies of every application for a stay of a trustee's duty to resign under section 310(b) of the Act and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.

(b) One copy shall be manually signed by a duly authorized officer of the applicant (or individual customarily performing similar functions with respect to an organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated) or by a natural person seeking a stay under section 310(b) of the Act.

(c) Such applications shall be on paper no larger than 8x 11 inches in size. If reduction of large documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8x 11 inches in size. The left margin shall be at least 1inches wide and if the application is bound, it shall be bound on the left side.

(d) The application shall be typed, printed, copied, or prepared by a process which produces copies suitable for repeated photocopying and microfilming. All typewritten or printed matter shall be set forth in black ink to permit photocopying. If printed, the application shall be in type not smaller than 10-point, roman type, at least two points leaded.

(e) Rules 7a-28 through 7a-32 [§§ 260.7a-28 through 260.7a-32 of this chapter] relating to incorporation by reference shall be applicable to applications for stay pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act.
