
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 269 - FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
#### ยง 269.2 Form T-2, for statement of eligibility and qualification for individual trustees.

This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 5a-1(b) (ยง 260.5a-1(b) of this chapter) for statements of eligibility and qualification of individuals designated to act as trustees under trust indentures to be qualified pursuant to section 305 or 307 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. Under sections 307, 308, 309, 310 and 319 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (17 CFR part 260), the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this form for statements of eligibility and qualification of individuals designated to act as trustees. Disclosure of the information specified in this form is mandatory before processing statements of eligibility and qualification. The information will be used for the primary purpose of determining relationships of trustees and whether there are any conflicting interests. This statement will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public. Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can utilize it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Failure to disclose the information requested by this form may result in enforcement action by the Commission to compel compliance with the Federal securities laws.
