
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 10 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Prehearing Procedures; Prehearing Conferences; Discovery; Depositions
##### ยง 10.42 Discovery.
###### Witness statements,In general.

(c)-(1)Each party to an adjudicatory proceeding shall make available to the other parties any statement of any person whom the party calls, or expects to call, as a witness that relates to the anticipated testimony of the witness and is in the party's possession. Such statements shall include the following:

(i) Transcripts of investigative, deposition, trial or similar testimony given by the witness,

(ii) Written statements signed by the witness, and

(iii) Substantially verbatim notes of interviews with the witness, and all exhibits to such transcripts, statements and notes. For purposes of this paragraph (c), "substantially verbatim notes" means notes that fairly record the exact words of the witness, subject to minor, inconsequential deviations. Such statements shall include memoranda and other writings authored by the witness that contain information relating to his anticipated testimony. The Division of Enforcement shall produce witness statements pursuant to this paragraph prior to the scheduled hearing date, at a time to be designated by the Administrative Law Judge. Respondents shall produce witness statements pursuant to this paragraph at the close of the Division's case in chief during the hearing. If necessary, the Administrative Law Judge shall, upon request, grant the Division a continuance of the hearing in order to review and analyze any witness statements produced by the respondents.

(2) Nothing in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall limit the ability of a party to withhold documents or other information on the grounds of privilege, the work product doctrine or other protection from disclosure under applicable law.
