
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 10 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Prehearing Procedures; Prehearing Conferences; Discovery; Depositions
##### ยง 10.42 Discovery.
###### Response.

(2)A matter shall be considered to be admitted unless, within 15 days after service of the request, or within such other time as the Administrative Law Judge may allow, the party upon whom the request is directed serves upon the requesting party a sworn written answer or objection to the matter. If objection is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated. The response shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission and when good faith requires that a party qualify his answer and deny only a part of the matter, he shall specify so much of it as is true and qualify or deny the remainder. An answering party may not give a lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny unless he states that he has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or reasonably available to him is insufficient to enable him to admit or deny. A party who considers that a matter of which an admission has been requested presents a genuine issue for trial may not, on that ground alone, object to the request; he may deny the matter or set forth reasons why he cannot admit or deny it.
