
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 10 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Prehearing Procedures; Prehearing Conferences; Discovery; Depositions
##### ยง 10.44 Depositions and interrogatories.
###### Procedures for taking oral depositions.

(e)(1) Oral examination and crossexamination of witnesses shall be conducted in a manner similar to that permitted at a formal hearing. All questions and testimony shall be recorded verbatim, except to the extent that all parties present or represented may agree that a matter shall be off the record.

(2) All objections made at the time of the examination to the qualifications of the officer taking the deposition, or to the manner of taking it, or to the evidence presented, or to the conduct of any party, or any other objection to the proceeding shall be noted by the officer upon the deposition, and shall subsequently be determined by the Administrative Law Judge. Evidence objected to shall be taken subject to the objections. However, the parties may stipulate that, except as to objections to the form of questions, all objections to the matters testified to in a deposition are preserved for the hearing, whether or not raised at the time of deposition.

(3) During the taking of a deposition a party or deponent may request and obtain an adjournment to permit an application to be made to the Administrative Law Judge for an order suspending the deposition on grounds of bad faith in the conduct of the examination, annoyance, embarrassment, oppression of a deponent or party, or improper questions. An attorney who requests and obtains an adjournment for this purpose but fails, without good cause, promptly to apply for relief to the Administrative Law Judge may be found guilty of contemptuous conduct in accordance with ยง 10.11(b) of these rules.
