
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 270 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
#### § 270.8b-11 Number of copies; signatures; binding.

(a) Three complete copies of each registration statement or report, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall be filed with the Commission.

(b) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§ 239.15A and § 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 239.17a and § 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 239.17b and § 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter), three complete copies of each part of the registration statement (including, if applicable, exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of Part C of the registration statement) shall be filed with the Commission.

(c) At least one copy of the registration statement or report shall be signed in the manner prescribed by the appropriate form. Unsigned copies shall be conformed. If the signature of any person is affixed pursuant to a power of attorney or other similar authority, a copy of such power of attorney or other authority shall also be filed with the registration statement or report.

(d) Each copy of a registration statement or report filed with the Commission shall be bound in one or more parts without stiff covers. The binding shall be made on the left-hand side and in such manner as to leave the reading matter legible.
