
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 270 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
#### ยง 270.27d-1 Reserve requirements for principal underwriters and depositors to carry out the obligations to refund charges required by section 27(d) and section 27(f) of the Act.
##### Provided, however,

(3) For any other purpose:That such withdrawal shall not reduce the segregated trust account to an amount less than the sum of (i) 130 percent of the amount required to be maintained by paragraph (d) of this section, if any, and (ii) 100 percent of that amount required to be maintained by paragraph (e) of this section, if any.

(g) The minimum amounts required to be maintained by paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be computed at least monthly. Any additional deposits required by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section shall be made immediately after such computation, and any withdrawals permitted by paragraph (f)(3) of this section may be made only at such time.

(h) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a depositor or principal underwriter, acting as such for two or more registered investment companies issuing periodic payment plan certificates, from combining in a single segregated trust account the reserves for such companies required by this section.

(i) The refunds required to be made to certificate holders pursuant to sections 27(d) and 27(f) (of the Act) shall be paid in cash not more than 7 days from the date the certificate is received in proper form by the custodian bank or such other paying agent as may be designated under the periodic payment plan.

(j) Each depositor or principal underwriter shall file with the Commission, within the appropriate period of time specified, an Accounting of Segregated Trust Account. Form N-27D-1 (ยง 274.127d-1 of this chapter) is hereby prescribed as such accounting form.
