
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 270 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
#### ยง 270.30e-3 Internet availability of reports to shareholders.
##### Notice.

(c)A paper notice ("Notice") meeting the conditions of this paragraph (c) must be sent to the shareholder within 70 days after the close of the period for which the Report is being made. The Notice may contain only the information specified by paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, and may include pictures, logos, or similar design elements so long as the design is not misleading and the information is clear.

(1) The Notice must be written using plain English principles pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section and:

(i) Contain a prominent legend in bold-face type that states "[An] Important Report[s] to [Shareholders] of [Fund] [is/are] Now Available Online and In Print by Request." The Notice may also include information identifying the Fund, the Fund's sponsor (including any investment adviser or sub-adviser to the Fund), a variable annuity or variable life insurance contract or insurance company issuer thereof, or a financial intermediary through which shares of the Fund are held.

(ii) State that the Report contains important information about the Fund, including its portfolio holdings and financial statements. The statement may also include a brief listing of other types of information contained in the Report.

(iii) State that the Report is available at the website address specified in the Notice or, upon request, by mail, and encourage the shareholder to access and review the Report.

(iv) Include a website address where the Report and other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are available. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the documents that are required to be accessible under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or a section of the website other than on which the documents are posted. The website may be a central site with prominent links to each document. In addition to the website address, the Notice may contain any other equivalent method or means to access the Report or other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(v) Provide a toll-free (or collect) telephone number to contact the Fund or the shareholder's financial intermediary, and:

(A) Provide instructions describing how a shareholder may request a paper or email copy of the Report and other materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section at no charge, and an indication that the shareholder will not otherwise receive a paper or email copy;
