
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 270 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
#### § 270.30e-3 Internet availability of reports to shareholders.
##### Portfolio holdings for most recent first and third fiscal quarters.

(iv)The Fund's complete portfolio holdings as of the close of the Fund's most recent first and third fiscal quarters, if any, after the date on which the Fund's registration statement became effective, presented in accordance with the schedules set forth in §§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of Regulation S-X [§§ 210.12-12 through 210.12-14 of this chapter], which need not be audited. The complete portfolio holdings required by this paragraph (b)(1)(iv) must be made publicly available not later than 60 days after the close of the fiscal quarter.

(2) The website address relied upon for compliance with this section may not be the address of the Commission's electronic filing system.

(3) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be presented on the website in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.

(4) Persons accessing the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be able to retain permanently, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that meet the conditions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the fact that the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not available for a time in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, provided that:

(i) The Fund has reasonable procedures in place to ensure that the specified materials are available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section; and

(ii) The Fund takes prompt action to ensure that the specified documents become available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as soon as practicable following the earlier of the time at which it knows or reasonably should have known that the documents are not available in the manner required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
