
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 275 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
#### ยง 275.204-5 Delivery of Form CRS.
##### Delivery requirements.

(b)You (or a supervised person acting on your behalf) must:

(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the time you enter into an investment advisory contract with that retail investor.

(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing client your current Form CRS before or at the time you:

(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);

(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or

(iii) Recommend or provide a new investment advisory service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.

(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.

(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing client within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.

(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.
