
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 286 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 11(a) OF THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ACT
#### Schedule A to Part 286
##### Instruction.

Insofar as practicable, the itemization shall include transfer agents' fees, cost of printing and engraving, and legal and accounting fees. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, designated as such, shall be given.

Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the Bank from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.

The following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:

(a) Copies of the constituent instruments defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.

(b) Copies of an opinion of counsel, in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.

(c) Copies of all material contracts pertaining to the issuance or distributions of the obligations, to which the Bank or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.

(d) Copies of any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the Bank or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
