
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 290 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 9(a) OF THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ACT
#### ยง 290.101 Schedule A. Information required in reports pursuant to ยง 290.3.

This schedule specifies the information and documents to be furnished in a report pursuant to ยง 290.3 with respect to a proposed distribution of primary obligations of the EBRD. Information not available at the time of filing the report shall be filed as promptly thereafter as possible.

As to each issue of primary obligations of the EBRD that is to be distributed, furnish the following information:

(a) The title and date of the issue.

(b) The interest rate and interest payment dates.

(c) The maturity date or, if serial, the plan of serial maturities. If the maturity of the obligation may be accelerated, state the circumstances under which it may be so accelerated.

(d) A brief outline of:

(i) Any redemption provisions and

(ii) Any amortization, sinking fund or retirement provisions, stating the annual amount, if any, which the EBRD will be under obligation to apply for the satisfaction of such provisions.

(e) If secured by any lien, the kind and priority thereof, and the nature of the property subject to the lien; if any other indebtedness is secured by an equal or prior lien on the same property, state the nature of such other liens.

(f) If any obligations issued or to be issued by the EBRD will, as to the payment of interest and principal, rank prior to the obligations to be distributed, describe the nature and extent of such priority, to the extent known.

(g) Outline briefly any provisions of the governing instruments under which the terms of the obligations to be distributed may be amended or modified by the holders thereof or otherwise.

(h) Outline briefly any other material provisions of the governing instruments pertaining to the rights of the holders of the obligations to be distributed or pertaining to the duties of the EBRD with respect thereto.

(i) The name and address of the fiscal or paying agent of the EBRD, if any.

(a) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of obligations and state the amount of the participation of each principal underwriter, if any.

(b) Describe any arrangements known to the EBRD or to any principal underwriter named above designed to stabilize the market for the obligations for the account of the EBRD or the principal underwriters as a group and indicate whether any transactions have already been effected to accomplish that purpose.

(c) Describe any arrangements for withholding commissions, or otherwise, to hold each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of his participation.

The following information shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to all primary obligations that are to be offered for cash (estimate, if necessary):

State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice, without giving the additional amounts to be so paid.

Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses of the EBRD in connection with the issuance and distribution of the obligations, except underwriters' or dealers' discounts and commissions that are provided in Items 2, 3 and 4.

Make a reasonably itemized statement of the purposes, so far as determinable, for which the net proceeds to the EBRD from the obligations are to be used, and state the approximate amount to be used for each such purpose.

A copy of each of the following documents shall be attached to or otherwise furnished as a part of the report:

(a) Each constituent instrument defining the rights evidenced by the obligations.

(b) An opinion of counsel, written in the English language, as to the legality of the obligations.

(c) Each material contract pertaining to the issuance or distribution of the obligations, to which the EBRD or any principal underwriter of the obligations is or is to be a party, except selling group agreements.

(d) Any prospectus or other sales literature to be provided by the EBRD or any of the principal underwriters for general use in connection with the initial distribution of the obligations to the public.
