
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 300 - RULES OF THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION
#### Closeout or Completion of Open Contractual Commitments
##### ยง 300.400 Satisfaction of customer claims for standardized options.

(a) For the purpose of sections 7(b)(1), 8 (b) and (d), and 16(11) of the Securities Investor Protection Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), this rule will be applied in determining what a customer will receive in either (1) a liquidation proceeding pursuant to the Act or (2) a direct payment procedure pursuant to section 10 of the Act, in satisfaction of a claim based upon Standardized Options positions.

(b) As promptly as practicable after the initiation of a liquidation proceeding or a direct payment procedure under the Act, the trustee in a liquidation proceeding, or SIPC in a direct payment procedure, shall liquidate or cause to be liquidated, by sale or purchase, all Standardized Options positions held for the accounts of customers except to the extent that the trustee, with SIPC's consent, or SIPC as trustee, as the case may be, has arranged or is able promptly to arrange, a transfer of some or all of such positions to another SIPC member.

(c) A trustee in a liquidation proceeding, or SIPC in a direct payment procedure, shall calculate the dollar amount of all Standardized Options positions held for the account of a customer in accordance with section 16(11) of the Act, and credit or debit, as appropriate, the dollar amount so calculated to the account of such customer.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, neither the trustee in a liquidation proceeding nor SIPC in a direct payment procedure shall be required under this rule to liquidate any short position in Standardized Options covered by the deposit of (1) the underlying securities, in the case of a call option, or (2) treasury bills, in the case of a put option, by or on behalf of a customer with a bank or other depository. Any such positions that are not liquidated shall be excluded from the calculation provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) In no event will Standardized Options positions be delivered to or on behalf of customers in satisfaction of claims pursuant to section 7(b)(1) of the Act except to the extent that such positions have been transferred as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) In no event will Standardized Options be purchased for delivery to customers pursuant to section 8(d) of the Act.

(g) This rule shall not be construed as limiting or restricting in any way the exercise of any right of a broker or registered clearing agency to liquidate or cause the liquidation of Standardized Options Positions.
