
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 400 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### § 400.1 Scope of regulations.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(b) Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) requires all government securities brokers and government securities dealers, except those who are brokers or dealers registered pursuant to section 15 or section 15B of the Act or financial institutions, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission"). Regulations concerning registration are at § 240.15Ca2-1of this title. The Commission is responsible for the interpretation of the definitions of government securities broker and government securities dealer and of the regulations at § 240.15Ca2-1

(c) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)(i)) requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are also registered brokers or dealers to notify the Commission of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. Regulations concerning notice are at § 240.15Ca1-1 of this title.

(d) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act also requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are financial institutions to notify the appropriate regulatory agency, as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)), of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. The form of notice, Form G-FIN, is at § 449.1 of this chapter. Forms are available from the appropriate regulatory agency.
