
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 402 - FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### § 402.2 Capital requirements for registered government securities brokers and dealers.
###### Miscellaneous provisions.

(3)(i) Excess liquid capital is that amount in excess of the amount required by the greater of § 402.2(a) or, §§ 402.2 (b) or (c), as applicable. For the purposes of paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section, a government securities broker or dealer may use the amount of excess liquid capital, liquid capital and total haircuts reported in its most recently required filed Form G-405 for the purposes of calculating the effect of a projected withdrawal, advance or loan relative to excess liquid capital or total haircuts. The government securities broker or dealer must assure itself that the excess liquid capital, liquid capital or the total haircuts reported on the most recently required filed Form G-405 have not materially changed since the time such report was filed.

(ii) The term equity capital includes capital contributions by partners, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings or other capital accounts. The term equity capital does not include securities in the securities accounts of partners and balances in limited partners' capital accounts in excess of their stated capital contributions.

(iii) Paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section shall not preclude a government securities broker or dealer from making required tax payments or preclude the payment to partners of reasonable compensation, and such payments shall not be included in the calculation of withdrawals, advances or loans for purposes of paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section.

(iv) For the purposes of this subsection (i), any transaction between a government securities broker or dealer and a stockholder, partner, sole proprietor, employee or affiliate that results in a diminution of the government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital shall be deemed to be an advance or loan of liquid capital.
