
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 402 - FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### § 402.2a Appendix A - Calculation of market risk haircut for purposes of § 402.2(g)(2).
###### Total governments offset portion haircut.

(1)The "total governments offset portion haircut" equals the sum of the governments offset portion haircuts calculated for each category in § 402.2(f)(1). The "governments offset portion haircuts" equal, for each category in § 402.2(f)(1), the product of the offset haircut factor for that category set out in § 402.2(f)(2) and the smaller of the absolute values of the gross long immediate position or gross short immediate position for that category. Schedules B and C in paragraph (c) of this section can be used to make this calculation.

(i)(A) The "gross long immediate position" for purposes of this part equals, for each category except categories MB and AR in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the market values of each long immediate position in Treasury market risk instruments with a term to maturity (or, in the case of a floating rate note, the time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment or the term to maturity, whichever is less) corresponding to such category, the contract values of each reverse repurchase agreement with a term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to that category, and the values of the cash collateral of each security borrowing with a term to maturity or time to next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to such category.

(B) In the case of category MB, the "gross long immediate position" equals the sum of the market values of all long immediate positions in fixed rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.

(C) In the case of category AR, the "gross long immediate position" equals the sum of the market values of all long immediate positions in adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.

(ii)(A) The "gross short immediate position" for purposes of this section equals, for each category except categories MB and AR in § 402.2(f)(1), the sum of the market values of each short immediate position in Treasury market risk instruments with a term to maturity (or, in the case of a floating rate note, the time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment or the term to maturity, whichever is less) corresponding to such category, and the values of funds received from each financing transaction (including repurchase agreements, securities lending secured by cash collateral, and term financings, but excluding subordinated debt which meets the requirements of § 240.15c3-1d of this title modified as provided in § 402.2d) with a term to maturity or time to the next scheduled interest rate adjustment, whichever is less, corresponding to that category.

(B) In the case of category MB, the "gross short immediate position" equals the sum of the market values of all short immediate positions in fixed rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.

(C) In the case of category AR, the "gross short immediate position" equals the sum of the market values of all short immediate positions in adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities which are Treasury market risk instruments.
