
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 404 - RECORDKEEPING AND PRESERVATION OF RECORDS
##### § 404.3 Records to be preserved by registered government securities brokers and dealers.

(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer, except a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-4), with the following modifications:

(1) References to "broker or dealer" and "broker and dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act" include registered government securities brokers or dealers.

(2) References to §§ 240.17a-3, .17a-4, and .17a-5 mean such sections as modified by this part and part 405 of this chapter.

(3) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, and "Computation for Net Capital" thereunder mean § 402.2 of this chapter and the computation of the ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts required thereunder.

(4) References to § 240.15c3-3, relating to possession or control of customer securities and balances, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.

(5) References to Form X-17A-5 mean Form G-405 (§ 449.5 of this chapter).

(6) The computation described in § 240.17a-4(b)(8)(x) is not required.

(b) A government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) and a registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-4), with the following modifications:

(1) References to "broker or dealer" and "broker and dealer" include registered government securities brokers or dealers.

(2) References to §§ 240.17a-3, 240.17a-4, and 240.17a-5 mean such sections as modified by this part and part 405 of this chapter.

(3) With respect to a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility rules of § 402.1(e) of this chapter, references to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, and "Computation for Net Capital" thereunder include the modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.

(4) References to § 240.15c3-3, relating to possession or control of customer securities and balances, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.

(c) This section shall be effective on July 25, 1987.
