
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 405 - REPORTS AND AUDIT
##### § 405.2 Reports to be made by registered government securities brokers and dealers.

(a) Every registered government securities broker or dealer, except a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) of this chapter and a government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC, shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:

(1) References to "broker or dealer" include registered government securities brokers and dealers.

(2) References to "rules of the Commission" or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.

(3) References to Form X-17A-5 mean Form G-405 (§ 449.5 of this chapter).

(4) For the purposes of § 240.17a-5(a)(4) of this title, the Commission may, on the terms and conditions stated in that subparagraph, declare effective a plan with respect to Form G-405, in which case, that plan shall be treated the same as a plan approved with respect to Form X-17A-5.

(5) References to "net capital" mean "liquid capital" as defined in § 402.2(d) of this chapter.

(6) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, mean § 402.2 of this chapter.

(7) Paragraph 240.17a-5(c)(2)(ii) is modified to read as follows:

"(ii) A footnote containing a statement of the registered government securities broker's or dealer's liquid capital, total haircuts, and ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts, determined in accordance with § 402.2 of this title. Such statement shall include summary financial statements of subsidiaries consolidated pursuant to § 402.2c of this title, where material, and the effect thereof on the liquid capital, total haircuts and ratio of liquid capital to total haircuts of the registered government securities broker or dealer.".

(8) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.

(9) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.

(10) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.

(11) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed "Notice Pursuant to Section 405.2," and shall be filed within 30 days following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker or dealer.

(12) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(a) of this chapter.

(b) A government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of § 402.1(e) of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:

(1) References to "broker or dealer" include government securities interdealer brokers;

(2) References to "rules of the Commission" or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.

(3) References to "net capital" mean net capital calculated as provided in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.

(4) References to § 240.15c3-1, relating to net capital, include the modifications contained in § 402.1(e) of this chapter.

(5) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.

(6) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.

(7) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.

(8) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed "Notice Pursuant to Section 405.2" and shall be filed within 30 days following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker.

(9) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(b) of this chapter.

(c) A registered government securities broker or dealer that is also a futures commission merchant registered with the CFTC shall comply with the requirements of § 240.17a-5 of this title (SEC Rule 17a-5), with the following modifications:

(1) References to "broker or dealer" include registered government securities brokers and dealers.

(2) References to "rules of the Commission" or words of similar import include, where appropriate, the regulations contained in this subchapter.

(3) References to § 240.15c3-3 and the exhibits thereto, relating to possession or control of customer securities and reserve requirements, mean § 403.4 of this chapter.

(4) The reference to § 240.15b1-2 of this title, relating to financial statements to be filed upon registration, means § 240.15Ca2-2.

(5) The supplemental report described in § 240.17a-5(e)(4) of this title, concerning the Securities Investor Protection Act, is not required.

(6) The statement described in § 240.17a-5(f)(2) of this title shall be headed "Notice Pursuant to § 405.2," and shall be filed within 30 days following the effective date of registration as a government securities broker or dealer.

(7) References in § 240.17a-5(h)(2) of this title to § 240.17a-11 mean § 405.3(c) of this chapter.
