
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter IV - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Regulations Under Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
#### PART 420 - LARGE POSITION REPORTING
##### ยง 420.3 Reporting.
###### 2

() Net position, as of the close of market on the report date, in over-the-counter options contracts on which the security being reported is deliverable (report notional amount of contracts regardless of option delta).

(d) An illustration of a sample report is contained in appendix B of this part.

(e) Each of the components of Part I-Part VIII of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be reported as a positive number or zero. All reportable amounts should be reported in the order specified above and at par in millions of dollars, except futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts, which should be reported as the number of contracts. Over-the-counter options contracts should be reported as the notional dollar amount of contracts regardless of option delta.

(f) Each submitted large position report must include the following administrative information: Name of the reporting entity; address of the principal place of business; name and address of the designated filing entity; the Treasury security that is being reported; the CUSIP number for the security being reported; the report date or dates for which information is being reported; the date the report was submitted; name and telephone number of the person to contact regarding information reported; and name and position of the authorized individual submitting this report.

(1) Reporting entities have the option to identify the type(s) of business engaged in by the reporting entity and its aggregating entities with positions in the specified Treasury security by checking the appropriate box. The types of businesses include: Broker or dealer, government securities broker or dealer, municipal securities broker or dealer, futures commission merchant, bank holding company, non-bank holding company, bank, investment adviser, commodity pool operator, pension trustee, non-pension trustee, and insurance company. Reporting entities may select as many business types as applicable. If the reporting entity is engaged in a business that is not listed, it could select "other" and provide a description of its business with respect to positions in the specified Treasury security.

(2) Reporting entities also have the option to identify their overall investment strategy with respect to positions in the specified Treasury security by checking the appropriate box. Active investment strategies include those that involve purchasing, selling, borrowing, lending, and financing positions in the security prior to maturity. Passive investment strategies include those that involve holding the security until maturity. A combination of active and passive strategies would involve applying the aforementioned active and passive strategies to all or a portion of a reporting entity's positions in the specified Treasury security. Reporting entities may select the most applicable investment strategy.

(g) The large position report must be signed by one of the following: The chief compliance officer; chief legal officer; chief financial officer; chief operating officer; chief executive officer; or managing partner or equivalent of the designated filing entity. The designated filing entity must also include in the report, immediately preceding the signature, a statement of certification as follows:

(h) The report must be filed before noon Eastern Time on the fourth business day following issuance of a public announcement.

(i) A report to be filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section will be considered filed when received by Treasury or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York according to the instructions provided in the public announcement.

(j) A reporting entity that has filed a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall, at the request of Treasury, or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the direction of Treasury, timely provide any supplemental information pertaining to such report.
