
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 11 - RULES RELATING TO INVESTIGATIONS
#### ยง 11.7 Rights of witnesses.
##### Right to counsel.

(c)A person compelled to appear, or who appears in person by request or permission of the Commission or its staff during an investigation, may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel. Subject to the provisions of ยง 11.8(b) of this part, he may be represented by any attorney-at-law who is admitted to practice before the highest court in any State or territory or the District of Columbia, who has not been suspended or disbarred from appearance and practice before the Commission in accordance with the provisions of part 14 of this title, and who has not been excluded from further participation in the particular investigatory proceeding for good cause established in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(1) The right to be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel shall mean the right of a person testifying to have an attorney present with him during any aspect of an investigative proceeding and to have this attorney advise his client before, during and after the conclusion of such examination. At the conclusion of the examination, counsel may request the person presiding to permit the witness to clarify any of his answers which may need clarification in order that his answers not be left equivocal or incomplete on the record. For his use in protecting the interests of his client with respect to that examination counsel may make summary notes during the examination.

(2) With due regard for the rights of a witness, the Commission may for good cause exclude a particular attorney from further participation in any investigation in which the Commission has found the attorney to have engaged in dilatory, obstructionist or contumacious conduct. The person conducting an investigation may report to the Commission instances of apparently dilatory, obstructionist or contumacious conduct on the part of an attorney. After due notice to the attorney, the Commission may take such action as the circumstances warrant based upon a written transcript evidencing the conduct of the attorney in that investigation or such other or additional written or oral presentation as the Commission may permit or direct.
