
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 11 - RULES RELATING TO INVESTIGATIONS
#### Appendix A to Part 11 - Informal Procedure Relating to the Recommendation of Enforcement Proceedings

The Division of Enforcement ("Division"), in its discretion, may inform persons who may be named in a proposed enforcement proceeding of the nature of the allegations pertaining to them. The Division, in its discretion, may advise such persons that they may submit a written statement prior to the consideration by the Commission of any staff recommendation for the commencement of such proceeding. Unless otherwise provided for by either the Director, a Deputy Director, the Program Coordinator, the Chief Counsel, an Associate Director, or a Regional Counsel of the Division, or a Regional Director of the Commission, such written statements shall be submitted within 14 days after persons are informed by the Division of Enforcement of the nature of the proposed allegations pertaining to them and shall be no more than 20 pages, double spaced on 8by 11 inch paper, setting forth their views of factual, legal or policy matters relevant to the commencement of an enforcement proceeding. Any statement of fact included in the submission must be sworn to by a person with personal knowledge of such fact. Statements shall be forwarded to the Director, Division of Enforcement, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581, with copies to the staff conducting the investigation, shall clearly identify the specific investigation, and, if desired, may request that the statement be forwarded to the Commission. Similarly, persons who become involved in an investigation, and submit a written statement on their initiative, should follow the relevant procedures described herein. In the event the Division recommends the commencement of an enforcement proceeding to the Commission, any written statement will be forwarded to the Commission if so requested. The Commission may, in its discretion, consider all, any portion or none of the submission when it considers the staff recommendation to commence an enforcement proceeding.
