
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 12 - RULES RELATING TO REPARATIONS
#### Subpart A - General Information and Preliminary Consideration of Pleadings
##### ยง 12.23 Setting aside of default.
###### Default order final.

(b)A default order that has become final pursuant to ยง 12.22(c) shall not be set aside except upon a motion filed and served by the defaulted party showing that the defaulted party should be relieved from the default order because of fraud perpetrated on a decisionmaking official or the Commission, mistake, excusable neglect, or because the order is void for want of jurisdiction. Such a motion shall also show that, if the default order were set aside, there would be a reasonable likelihood of success for the defaulted party's claim or defense on the merits and that no party would be prejudiced thereby. Motions to set aside a final default order for fraud, mistake, or excusable neglect shall be filed within one year after the order was issued. All motions to set aside default orders shall be decided, in the first instance, by the official who issued the order. A denial of a motion to set aside a default order that has become final shall be treated as an initial decision, which may be appealed to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of ยง 12.401. A grant of a motion to set aside a final default order shall be treated as a nonfinal order which may be appealed only in accordance with the requirements of ยง 12.309.
