
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 12 - RULES RELATING TO REPARATIONS
#### Subpart B - Discovery
##### ยง 12.33 Admissions.
###### Reply.

(b)Each matter of which an admission is requested shall be separately set forth. The matter is admitted unless within twenty (20) days after service of the request, the party upon whom the request is directed files and serves upon the party requesting a verified written answer or objection to the matter. If objection is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated. The answer shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission and when good faith requires that an answering party qualify the answer and deny only a part of the matter of which an admission is requested, the answering party shall specify so much of it as is true and qualify or deny the remainder. Answering parties may not give a lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny unless they state that they have made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or reasonably available to them is insufficient to enable them to admit or deny. Parties who consider that a matter of which an admission has been requested presents a genuine issue for trial may not, on that ground alone, object to the request; they may deny the matter or set forth reasons why they cannot admit or deny it.
