
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 12 - RULES RELATING TO REPARATIONS
#### Subpart D - Rules Applicable to Summary Decisional Proceedings
##### ยง 12.209 Oral testimony.
###### Washington, DC, hearings.

(c)In exceptional circumstances and when an in-person hearing is determined to be necessary in resolving the issues, the Administrative Judge may order an in-person hearing in Washington, DC, upon written request by a party and the agreement of at least one opposing party. The Administrative Judge will issue notice of the time, date, and location of an in-person hearing to the parties at least 30 days in advance of the hearing. Except as otherwise provided in this section, an in-person hearing will be held and recorded in the manner prescribed in ยง 12.312(c) through (f). A party not agreeing to appear at the hearing in Washington, DC, may be ordered to participate by telephone. Any party not appearing in person or by telephone will be deemed to have waived the right to participate in the hearing, to present evidence, or to cross-examine other witnesses; further, that party may be subject to such action under ยง 12.35 as the Administrative Judge may find appropriate. The Administrative Judge may order any party who requests or agrees to appear at a hearing in Washington, DC, and fails to appear without good cause, to pay any reasonable costs unnecessarily incurred by parties appearing at such a hearing.
