
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 16 - REPORTS BY CONTRACT MARKETS AND SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### ยง 16.01 Publication of market data on futures, swaps and options thereon: trading volume, open contracts, prices, and critical dates.
##### Prices.

(b)(1) Each reporting market must record the following contract types separately

(i) For futures, by commodity and by futures expiration;

(ii) For options, by underlying futures contracts for options on futures contracts or by underlying commodity for options on commodities, and by put, by call, by expiration date and by strike price;

(iii) For swaps, by product type and contract month or term life of the swap; and

(iv) For options on swaps or classes of options on swaps, by underlying swap contracts for options on swap contracts or by underlying commodity for options on swaps on commodities, and by put, by call, by expiration date and by strike price.

(2) Each reporting market must record for the trading session and for the opening and closing periods of trading as determined by each reporting market:

(i) The opening and closing prices of each futures, option, swap or swaption;

(ii) The price that is used for settlement purposes, if different from the closing price; and

(iii) The lowest price of a sale or offer, whichever is lower, and the highest price of a sale or bid, whichever is higher, that the reporting market reasonably determines accurately reflects market conditions. Bids and offers vacated or withdrawn shall not be used in making this determination. A bid is vacated if followed by a higher bid or price and an offer is vacated if followed by a lower offer or price.

(3) If there are no transactions, bids, or offers during the opening or closing periods, the reporting market may record as appropriate:

(i) The first price (in lieu of opening price data) or the last price (in lieu of closing price data) occurring during the trading session, clearly indicating that such prices are the first and last prices; or

(ii) Nominal opening or nominal closing prices that the reporting market reasonably determines to accurately reflect market conditions, clearly indicating that such prices are nominal.

(4) Additional information. Each reporting market must record the following information with respect to transactions in commodity futures, commodity options, swaps or options on swaps on that reporting market:

(i) The method used by the reporting market in determining nominal prices and settlement prices; and

(ii) If discretion is used by the reporting market in determining the opening and/or closing ranges or the settlement prices, an explanation that certain discretion may be employed by the reporting market and a description of the manner in which that discretion may be employed. Discretionary authority must be noted explicitly in each case in which it is applied (for example, by use of an asterisk or footnote).
