
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 16 - REPORTS BY CONTRACT MARKETS AND SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### § 16.07 Delegation of authority to the Director of the Office of Data and Technology and to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, the authority set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to the Director of the Office of Data and Technology, with the concurrence of the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees as the Directors each may designate from time to time. The Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, the authority set forth in paragraph (d) of this section to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by such Director or by such other employee or employees of such Director as may be designated from time to time by the Director. The Directors may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.

(b) Pursuant to §§ 16.00(b) and 16.01(d), as applicable, the authority to, with the concurrence of the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's delegate, determine whether reporting markets must submit data in hard copy, and the time that such data may be submitted where the Director determines that a reporting market is unable to meet the requirements set forth in the regulations.

(c) Pursuant to §§ 16.00(b)(1), 16.01(d)(1), and 16.06, the authority to, with the concurrence of the Director of the Division Market Oversight or the Director's delegate, approve the format, coding structure and electronic data transmission procedures used by reporting markets.

(d) Pursuant to § 16.02, the authority to determine the specific content of any daily trade and supporting data report, request that such reports be accompanied by data that identifies or facilitates the identification of each trader for each transaction or order included in a submitted trade and supporting data report, and establish the time for the submission of and the manner and format of such reports.
