
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 18 - REPORTS BY TRADERS
#### Appendix A to Part 18 - Form 40
##### see

Commodity (or commodities)-generally, all goods and articles (except onions and motion picture box office receipts, or any index, measure, value, or data related to such receipts), and all services, rights, and interests (except motion picture box office receipts, or any index, measure, value, or data related to such receipts) in which contracts for future delivery are presently or in the future dealt in (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)).

Commodity Index Trading ("CIT")-means:

a. An investment strategy that consists of investing in an instrument (e.g., a commodity index fund, exchange-traded fund for commodities, or exchange-traded note for commodities) that enters into one or more derivative contracts to track the performance of a published index that is based on the price of one or more commodities, or commodities in combination with other securities; or

b. An investment strategy that consists of entering into one or more derivative contracts to track the performance of a published index that is based on the price of one or more commodities, or commodities in combination with other securities.

Control-as used in this Form, "control" means to actually direct, by power of attorney or otherwise, the trading of a special account or a consolidated account. A special account or a consolidated account may have more than one controller.

Derivatives-futures, options on futures, and swaps.

Omnibus volume threshold account-means any trading account that, on an omnibus basis, carries reportable trading volume on or subject to the rules of a reporting market that is a board of trade designated as a contract market under section 5 of the Act or a swap execution facility registered under section 5h of the Act.

Parent-for purposes of Form 40, a person is a parent of a reporting trader if it has a direct or indirect controlling interest in the reporting trader; and a person has a controlling interest if such person has the ability to control the reporting trader through the ownership of voting equity, by contract, or otherwise.

Person-an individual, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or government agency and/or department.

Reportable sub-account-means any trading sub-account of an omnibus volume threshold account or omnibus reportable sub-account, which sub-account executes reportable trading volume.

Reportable sub-account controller-means a natural person who by power of attorney or otherwise actually directs the trading of a reportable sub-account. A reportable sub-account may have more than one controller.

Reportable trading volume-means contract trading volume that meets or exceeds the level specified in 17 CFR 15.04.

Reporting trader-a person who must file a Form 40, whether pursuant to 17 CFR 18.04(a), 17 CFR 18.04(b), or 17 CFR 20.05.

Subsidiary-for purposes of Form 40, a person is a subsidiary of a reporting trader if the reporting trader has a direct or indirect controlling interest in the person; and a reporting trader has a controlling interest if such reporting trader has the ability to control the person through the ownership of voting equity, by contract, or otherwise.

Volume threshold account-means any trading account that carries reportable trading volume on or subject to the rules of a reporting market that is a board of trade designated as a contract market under section 5 of the Act or a swap execution facility registered under section 5h of the Act.

Volume threshold account controller-means a natural person who by power of attorney or otherwise actually directs the trading of a volume threshold account. A volume threshold account may have more than one controller.

For question 1, please provide the name, contact information and other requested information regarding the reporting trader. If the reporting trader is an individual, provide their full legal name and the name of the reporting trader's employer.

1. Indicate whether the reporting trader is a legal entity or a natural person:

For questions 2, 3, and 4, provide the name and contact information as requested.

2. Individual to contact regarding the derivatives trading of the reporting trader (this individual should be able to answer specific questions about the reporting trader's trading activity when contacted by Commission staff):

Check here if this individual has the same contact information as that of the reporting trader.

3. Individual to contact regarding the risk management operations of the reporting trader (this individual should be able to answer specific questions about the reporting trader's risk management operations, including account margining, when contacted by Commission staff):

Check here if this individual has the same contact information as that of the reporting trader.

4. Individual responsible for the information on the Form 40 (this individual should be able to verify, clarify, and explain the answers submitted by a reporting trader on the Form 40):

Check here if this individual has the same contact information as that of the reporting trader.
