
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 18 - REPORTS BY TRADERS
#### Appendix A to Part 18 - Form 40
##### house,customer

For question 5, indicate whether the reporting trader has a customer omnibus account with a futures commission merchant, clearing member, or foreign broker (NOTE: For the purpose of this question, an omnibus account is an account that one futures commission merchant, clearing member or foreign broker carries for another in which the transactions of multiple individual accounts are combined. The identities of the holders of the individual accounts are not generally known or disclosed to the carrying firm. In addition, the Commission has traditionally identified omnibus accounts as eitheroromnibus accounts. House omnibus accounts exclusively contain the proprietary accounts of the omnibus account originator. Customer omnibus accounts contain the accounts of customers of the omnibus account originator. It is the obligation of the omnibus account originator to correctly identify the omnibus account type to the reporting entity):

5. Does the reporting trader have a customer omnibus account with a futures commission merchant, clearing member, or foreign broker? YES/NO

IF YES, Give the name(s) of the futures commission merchant, clearing member, or foreign broker carrying the account(s) of the reporting trader.

For question 6, please complete the following (NOTE: For the purpose of this question, affiliation can include, but is not limited to, a situation (1) where the foreign government directly or indirectly controls the reporting trader's assets, operations, and/or derivatives trading, or (2) where the reporting trader operates as a direct or indirect subsidiary of a foreign government, its agencies or departments, or any investment program of the foreign government):

6. Is the reporting trader directly or indirectly affiliated with a government other than that of the United States? YES/NO

IF YES, give the name of the government(s).

IF YES, explain the nature of the affiliation between the reporting trader and the government(s) listed above.

For question 7, if the Reporting Trader is a legal entity, please complete the following.

7. Is the reporting trader organized under the laws of a country other than the United States? YES/NO

IF YES, give the name of the country or countries under whose laws the reporting trader is organized.

For questions 8 and 9, provide the requested ownership information only as applicable.

If the Reporting Trader is a commodity pool, also provide the requested information in questions 8i, 8ii, and 8iii. If the Reporting Trader is reporting commodity pools in which it has an ownership interest, also provide the requested information in questions 9i, 9ii, and 9iii.

8. List all the parents of the reporting trader (including the immediate parent and any parent(s) of its parent) and, separately, all persons that have a 10 percent or greater ownership interest in the reporting trader (commodity pool investors are deemed to have an ownership interest in the pool). For each such parent or 10 percent or greater owner include the following information:

Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

8i. For each person identified in question 8 that is a limited partner, shareholder, or other similar type of pool participant, indicate if they are a principal or affiliate of the operator of the commodity pool.

8ii. For each person identified in question 8 that is a limited partner, shareholder, or other similar type of pool participant, indicate if they are also a commodity pool operator of the pool.

8iii. For each person identified in question 8 that is a limited partner, shareholder, or other similar type of pool participant and where the operator of the commodity pool is exempt from registration under ยง 4.13 of the Commission's regulations, indicate if that person has an ownership or equity interest of 25 percent or greater in the commodity pool.

9. List all the subsidiaries of the reporting trader (including the immediate subsidiary and any subsidiaries of those subsidiaries) and, separately, all persons in which the reporting trader has a 10 percent or greater ownership interest (including a 10 percent or greater interest in a commodity pool(s)). Only list subsidiaries and persons that engage in derivatives trading. For each such subsidiary and/or person include the following information:

Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

9i. For each person identified in question 9 that is a commodity pool and for which you are a limited partner, shareholder or other similar type of pool participant, indicate if you are a principal or affiliate of the operator of the commodity pool.

9ii. For each person identified in question 9 that is a commodity pool and for which you are a limited partner, shareholder or other similar type of pool participant, indicate if you are the commodity pool operator for the pool.

9iii. For each person identified in question 9 that is a commodity pool and for which you are a limited partner, shareholder or other similar type of pool participant and for which the operator of the commodity pool is exempt from registration under ยง 4.13 of the Commission's regulations, indicate if you have an ownership or equity interest of 25 percent or greater in the commodity pool.

For questions 10, 11, 12, and 13 provide the requested control information only as applicable.

10. List all persons outside of the reporting trader that control some or all of the derivatives trading of the reporting trader (including persons that may have been previously identified as a parent, above):

Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

11. List all persons for which the reporting trader controls some or all of the derivatives trading (including persons that may have been previously identified as a subsidiary, above):

Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

12. List any other person(s) that directly or indirectly influence, or exercise authority over, some or all of the trading of the reporting trader, but who do not exercise "control" as defined in this Form: Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

13. Is some or all of the derivatives trading of the reporting trader subject to an express or implied agreement or understanding with any other person(s) not addressed in questions 10, 11, or 12, above? YES/NO

If yes, provide the following information:

Indicate whether the party identified below is a legal entity or a natural person:

For question 14, please answer the following:

14i. Is the reporting trader engaged in commodity index trading as defined in paragraph (a) of the definition of CIT above? YES/NO

14ii. Is the reporting trader engaged in commodity index trading as defined in paragraph (b) of the definition of CIT above? YES/NO

a. If the reporting trader is engaged in CIT (as defined in paragraph (b)) with respect to one or more commodities or commodity groups appearing on Supplemental List II, indicate whether the reporting trader is, in the aggregate, pursuing long exposure or short exposure with respect to such commodities or commodity groups. It is not necessary to respond to this question with respect to CIT that tracks the performance of multiple unrelated commodities or commodity groups (e.g., an investment in an exchange-traded fund that tracks the performance of an index representing commodities spanning multiple commodity groups).

14iii. If the reporting trader is currently engaged in commodity index trading as defined in paragraphs (a) or (b) of the CIT definition above, indicate the month and year on which the reporting trader first became engaged in commodity index trading.

For questions 15 and 16, please indicate if the reporting trader meets the specified definition:

15. Is the reporting trader a Swap Dealer, as defined in ยง 1.3 of regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act? YES/NO

16. Is the reporting trader a Major Swap Participant, as defined in ยง 1.3 of regulations under the Commodity Exchange Act? YES/NO

For questions 17, 18, and 19 provide the requested information only as applicable.

17. Select all business sectors and subsectors that pertain to the business activities or occupation of the reporting trader. If more than one business subsector is selected, indicate which business subsector primarily describes the nature of the reporting trader's business.

18. Select all commodity groups and individual commodities that the reporting trader presently trades or expects to trade in the near future in derivative markets.

19. For each selected individual commodity identified in question 18, indicate the business purpose(s) for which the reporting trader uses derivative markets. If the reporting trader has more than one business purpose for trading in an individual commodity, also indicate the predominant business purpose.

20. Please sign/authenticate the Form 40 prior to submitting.

Signature/Electronic Authentication:

Using derivative markets for commodities that are direct inputs or purchases for your business so as to offset price risk associated with your purchase of these inputs.

E.g. You are a grain processor, so you use wheat futures to offset the price risk incidental to your cash purchases of wheat.

Using derivative markets for commodities that are direct outputs or sales of your business so as to offset price risk associated with your sale of these outputs.

E.g. You are a gasoline refiner, so you use gasoline futures to offset price risk associated with your production of gasoline.

Using derivative markets for a commodity that is not a direct input or output of your business, but which has significant price correlations with the direct inputs or outputs of your business.

E.g. You manufacture ethanol which is used as an additive in and competitor for gasoline as a combustive fuel. While you neither directly consume nor produce gasoline, you may find that the price you receive for your ethanol product is highly correlated with the price of gasoline, and therefore you reduce ethanol price risk by using gasoline futures contracts.

Managing other price risks incidental to the operation of your business or physical assets through the use of commodity derivative markets.

E.g. You are a manufacturer with significant international sales, so you use foreign currency futures to offset risks associated with changes in the competitiveness of your exports and therefore the value of your physical assets such as production plants, land, machinery, etc.

Fulfilling customer/client desire for portfolio diversification or exposure to various asset classes through your activity as a Commodity Pool Operator, Commodity Trading Advisor, or other similar role.

E.g. You collect funds and execute trading strategies through the use of futures/options on futures markets at the expressed intent and for the sole benefit of clients.

Reducing risk stemming from holding or executing swaps contracts on behalf of clients or customers through the use of futures/options on futures markets.

E.g. You sell crude oil swaps to a client and agree to accept the risk inherent in the index price. You offset this risk through purchases of crude oil futures, in effect transferring price risk from the client to another market participant.

Engaging in derivatives transactions to assume risk and help transfer ownership of derivative positions from one market participant to another, realizing the bid-ask spread as the return.

E.g. You accept risk by buying and selling futures/options on futures contracts so that other traders can move into and out of positions when they wish. You then find other traders willing to take the other side of those transactions.

Using derivative markets as part of a strategy designed to realize risk-free profit from pricing anomalies.

E.g. You realize that the wheat futures contract is trading at a discount (even after considering storage, transport, etc.) relative to the wheat cash price, and therefore find it profitable to purchase the wheat futures contract, take delivery, and then resell the wheat in the cash market for a risk-free profit.

Using derivative markets as a way to express your belief in the future movement of market prices. This strategy does not involve offsetting risks incidental to your business, but instead involves directional trading.

E.g. You conduct research and believe that crude oil prices are due to rise, so you take long futures positions in crude oil to profit from your predictions.

Using derivatives to diversify, rebalance, or otherwise allocate financial assets so that risks to the value of the investment portfolio are reduced. This strategy is used by entities such as pension funds and endowments to manage overall risk to their financial portfolios.

E.g. You hold Treasury bonds as a component of your investment portfolio, and use futures contracts to reduce overall portfolio risk that would result from falling bond prices.

Reducing risk stemming from your proprietary holding or execution of swaps contracts through the use of futures/options on futures markets.

E.g. You trade interest rate swaps as part of your business or investment strategy, and offset some of the risk inherent in those swaps through your use of Eurodollar futures markets.

List and explain your business purpose if the above categories do not adequately describe the reason you trade in a particular commodity derivative market.
