
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 20 - LARGE TRADER REPORTING FOR PHYSICAL COMMODITY SWAPS
#### Appendix B to Part 20 - Explanatory Guidance on Data Record Layouts

The following example (in Tables 1, 2 and 3) covers reporting for a particular clearing organization. "Clearing Organization One" would report, for the 27th of September 2010, the following eleven unique data record submissions. Each data record submission represents a unique position, as indicated by § 20.3, held by a clearing member of Clearing Organization One. Paragraph (a) of § 20.3 broadly outlines the data elements that determine unique positions for reports on clearing member positions. Paragraphs (b) of § 20.3 present all of the data elements that should be submitted in reference to a particular data record for a particular clearing member (in Table 1). Paragraph (c) identifies data elements that would comprise end of day record data on cleared products (in Tables 2 and 3). Therefore, paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 20.3 present all of the data elements that should be submitted in reference to a particular data record.

Because CFTC designated Clearing Organization One (in this example) currently has two clearing members, "Clearing Member One" and "Clearing Member Two," positions cleared for these two distinct clearing members would be subdivided.

In the following example it is assumed that the clearing member accounts are either proprietary or customer (but not both) and therefore data record submissions do not have to be delineated by these account types. However, if clearing members did have both proprietary and customer accounts, then a clearing organization would have to further subdivide these clearing member data records by these two account types.

Clearing Member One currently has five positions with multiple cleared product IDs and futures equivalent months/years, and therefore these positions also constitute separate data records.

Clearing Member Two currently has six positions with the following varying characteristics: Cleared product IDs; futures equivalent months/years; commodity reference prices; swaption positions that involve both puts and calls; and multiple strike prices. Accordingly, these positions must be reported in separate data records. An illustration of how these records would appear is included in Table 1 below. Clearing Organization One would also have to report the corresponding swaption position deltas, strike prices, expiration dates, and settlement prices and swap settlement prices. An illustration of these submissions is included in Tables 2 and 3 below.

This first example shows the data records generated under § 20.4 by a single reporting firm for report date September 27, 2011. Each data record represents a unique part of a reportable position in heating oil and natural gas by the reporting entity and its counterparties. Paragraph (b) of § 20.4 outlines the data elements that determine unique positions.

In this example, the reporting entity clears with one clearing organization and therefore the data records do not have to be delineated by clearing organization (there is a reportable position stemming from an uncleared transaction included as well). However, if the reporting entity in this example used multiple clearing organizations, then it would have to further subdivide its data submissions by each clearing organization.

The reporting entity reports fifteen records; six principal positions and nine counterparty positions. The reported positions constitute separate data records because they vary by the following characteristics: swap counterparties; futures equivalent months/years; clearing organization cleared products; swaptions that were either cleared or uncleared; commodity reference prices; and whether the trade was entered into on or off execution facilities. An illustration of how these records would be reported is included in Table 4 below.

For the calculation of notional values, assume for simplicity that the price of heating oil, for all contract months and for both reference prices, is $3/gal. Similarly, assume that the price of natural gas for all contract months is $4.25/MMBtu.

In this second example, the data records generated by § 20.4(c) are displayed for a hypothetical swap, as detailed in Example 1 of appendix A. In contrast to the above example, this second example of a § 20.4(c) data record is simplistic in that it displays a situation where the position records arise from a single swap transaction, in one commodity, with a single counterparty.

For the sake of this example, assume the swap dealer gained long exposure from the swap, and that the swap was cleared. The price of crude is assumed to be $100/bbl for all contract months on January 1 and $95/bbl for all contract months on January 2. An illustration of the data records generated for January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2011 as a result of this hypothetical swap can be found in Tables 5 and 6, respectively.
