
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 23 - SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SWAP PARTICIPANTS
#### Subpart E - Capital and Margin Requirements for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants
##### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 23 - Application for Internal Models To Compute Market Risk Exposure Requirement and Credit Risk Exposure Requirement
###### Mechanics of the SSFA.

(3)Kand W are used to calculate K, the augmented value of K, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. Kis defined in paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix. The values of parameters A and D, relative to Kdetermine the specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a securitization position, or portion of a position, as appropriate, is the larger of the specific risk-weighting factor determined in accordance with this paragraph (n)(3), paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix, and a specific risk-weighting factor of 1.6 percent.

(i) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization position is less than or equal to K, the position must be assigned a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent.

(ii) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization position is greater than or equal to K, the swap dealer must calculate the specific risk-weighting factor in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix.

(iii) When A is less than Kand D is greater than K, the specific risk-weighting factor is a weighted-average of 1.00 and Kcalculated under paragraphs (n)(3)(iii)(A) and (3)(iii)(B) of this appendix. For the purpose of this calculation:

(A) The weight assigned to 1.00 equals

(iii) The specific risk-weighting factor for the position (expressed as a percent) is equal to Kx 100.
