
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 23 - SWAP DEALERS AND MAJOR SWAP PARTICIPANTS
#### Subpart I - Swap Documentation
##### ยง 23.502 Portfolio reconciliation.
###### Swaps with swap dealers or major swap participants.

(a)Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall engage in portfolio reconciliation as follows for all swaps in which its counterparty is also a swap dealer or major swap participant.

(1) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation.

(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by a qualified third party.

(3) The portfolio reconciliation shall be performed no less frequently than:

(i) Once each business day for each swap portfolio that includes 500 or more swaps;

(ii) Once each week for each swap portfolio that includes more than 50 but fewer than 500 swaps on any business day during any week; and

(iii) Once each calendar quarter for each swap portfolio that includes no more than 50 swaps at any time during the calendar quarter.

(4) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall resolve immediately any discrepancy in a material term of a swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise.

(5) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancy in a valuation identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise as soon as possible, but in any event within five business days, provided that the swap dealer and major swap participant establishes, maintains, and follows written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify how the swap dealer or major swap participant will comply with any variation margin requirements under section 4s(e) of the Act and regulations under this part pending resolution of the discrepancy in valuation. A difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
