
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 30 - FOREIGN FUTURES AND FOREIGN OPTIONS TRANSACTIONS
#### ยง 30.7 Treatment of foreign futures or foreign options secured amount.
##### Permitted investments and deposits of 30.7 customer funds.

(h)(1) A futures commission merchant may invest 30.7 customer funds subject to, and in compliance with, the terms and conditions of ยง 1.25 of this chapter. Regulation 1.25 of this chapter shall apply to the investment of 30.7 customer funds as if such funds comprised customer funds or customer money subject to segregation pursuant to section 4d of the Act and the regulations thereunder.

(2) Each futures commission merchant that invests money, securities or property on behalf of 30.7 customers must keep a record showing the following:

(i) The date on which such investments were made;

(ii) The name of the person through whom such investments were made;

(iii) The amount of money or current market value of securities so invested;

(iv) A description of the obligations in which such investments were made, including CUSIP or ISIN numbers;

(v) The identity of the depositories or other places where such investments are maintained;

(vi) The date on which such investments were liquidated or otherwise disposed of and the amount of money received or current market value of securities received as a result of such disposition;

(vii) The name of the person to or through whom such investments were disposed of; and

(viii) A daily valuation for each instrument and readily available documentation supporting the daily valuation for each instrument. Such supporting documentation must be sufficient to enable third parties to verify the valuations and the accuracy of any information from external sources used in those valuations.

(3) Any 30.7 customer funds deposited in a bank or trust company located in the United States or in a foreign jurisdiction must be available for immediate withdrawal upon the demand of the futures commission merchant.

(4) Futures commission merchants that invest 30.7 customer funds in instruments described in ยง 1.25 of this chapter shall include such instruments in the computation of its secured amount requirements, required under paragraph (l) of this section, at values that at no time exceed current market value, determined as of the close of the market on the date for which such computation is made.
