
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 30 - FOREIGN FUTURES AND FOREIGN OPTIONS TRANSACTIONS
#### Appendix A to Part 30 - Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Commission's Exemptive Authority Under ยง 30.10 of Its Rules

Part 30 of the Commission's regulations establishes the regulatory structure governing the offer and sale in the United States of futures and options contracts made or to be made on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade. Section 30.10 of these regulations provides that, upon petition, the Commission may exempt any person from any requirement of this part. Specifically, section 30.10 states:

Any person adversely affected by any requirement of this part may file a petition with the Secretary of the Commission, which petition must set forth with particularity the reasons why that person believes that he should be exempt from such requirement. The Commission may, in its discretion, grant such an exemption if that person demonstrates to the Commission's satisfaction that the exemption is not otherwise contrary to the public interest or to the purposes of the provision from which exemption is sought. The petition will be granted or denied on the basis of the papers filed. The petition may be granted subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may find appropriate.

As the provisions of this section make clear, any person subject to regulation under part 30 may petition the Commission for an exemption. In adopting these regulations, however, the Commission noted in particular that persons located outside the United States that solicit or accept orders directly from United States customers for foreign futures or options transactions and that are subject to a comparable regulatory scheme in the country in which they are located may apply under section 30.10 for exemption from some or all of the requirements that would otherwise be applicable to such persons. This interpretative statement sets forth the elements that the Commission intends to evaluate in determining whether a particular regulatory program may be found to be comparable to the Commission's program.

The Commission wishes to emphasize, however, that this interpretative statement is not all inclusive, and that information with respect to other aspects of a particular regulatory program may be submitted by a petitioner or requested by the Commission. In this connection, the Commission would have broad discretion to determine that the policies of any program element generally are met, notwithstanding the fact that the offshore program does not contain an element identical to that of the Commission's regulatory program and conversely may assess how particular elements are in fact applied by offshore authorities. Thus, for example, in order to find that a particular program is comparable, the regulations thereunder would have to be applicable to all United States customers, notwithstanding any exemptions that might otherwise be available to particular classes of customer located offshore. A petitioner, therefore, must set forth with particularity the factual basis for a finding of comparability and the reasons why such policies and purposes are met, notwithstanding differences of degree and kind in its regulatory program.

No exemptions of a general nature will be granted unless the persons to which the exemption is to be applied consent to submit to jurisdiction in the United States by designating an agent for service of process pursuant to the provisions of rule 30.5 with respect to any activities of such persons otherwise subject to regulation under this part and to notify the National Futures Association of the commencement or termination of business in the United States. In this connection, to be exempted, such person must further agree to respond to a request to confirm that it continues to do business in the United States.

Persons located outside the United States may seek an exemption on their own behalf or an exemption may be sought on a general basis through the governmental agency responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the regulatory program in question, or the self-regulatory organizations of which such persons are members. The appropriate petitioner is a matter of judgment and may be determined by the parties seeking the exemption. The Commission, however, notes that it will be able to address petitions more efficiently if they are filed by the governmental agency or self-regulatory organization responsible for the regulatory program.

In this connection, as will be discussed in more detail below, any exemption of a general nature based on comparability will be conditioned upon appropriate information sharing arrangements between the Commission and the relevant governmental agency and/or self-regulatory organization. Representations from the appropriate governmental agency with respect to the applicability of any blocking statutes that may prevent the sharing of information requested under private arrangements would also be considered. Finally, in considering an exemption request, the Commission will take into account the extent to which United States persons or contracts regulated by the Commission are permitted to engage in futures-related activities or be offered in the country from which an exemption is sought.

In the Commission's review, the minimum elements of a comparable regulatory program would include: (1) Registration, authorization or other form of licensing, fitness review or qualification of persons through which customer orders are solicited and accepted; (2) minimum financial requirements for those persons that accept customer funds; (3) protection of customer funds from misapplication; (4) recordkeeping and reporting requirements; (5) minimum sales practice standards, including disclosure of the risks of futures and opotions transactions and, in particular, the risk of transactions undertaken outside the jurisdiction of domestic law; and (6) compliance.
