
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 30 - FOREIGN FUTURES AND FOREIGN OPTIONS TRANSACTIONS
#### Appendix A to Part 30 - Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Commission's Exemptive Authority Under ยง 30.10 of Its Rules
##### Information Sharing.

As noted above, any exemption of a general nature would also require an information sharing arrangement between the Commission and the appropriate governmental or self-regulatory organization to ensure Commission access to information on an as needed basis as may be necessary to fulfill its regulatory responsibilities. The information subject to these arrangements generally would be of a type necessary in the first instance to monitor domestic markets and to protect domestic customers trading on foreign markets.

Firm-specific information that is potentially relevant to protection of domestic customers engaged in foreign transactions could include the following: (1) Registration qualification status; (2) names of principals; (3) current capital; (4) location of customer funds; (5) address of main office and branches; (6) exchange and self-regulatory organization memberships; (7) the existence of any derogatory information such as that required to be disclosed on the Commission's Form 7-R; (8) notice of limitations imposed on activities; (9) notice of undersegregation or undercapitalization; (10) notice of misuse of customer funds; and (11) notice of sanctions or of expulsion from exchange or self-regulatory organization membership. The Commission believes that much of the above information would be public in the ordinary course in most jurisdictions. From time to time, the Commission also may need immediate access to financial information concerning risks posed to domestic firms by the carrying of foreign positions.

In addition to information that relates to the financial stability and creditworthiness of the firm, the Commission should have access to transaction-specific information that confirms the execution of orders and prices and facilitates tracing of customer funds. Such data could include records reflecting: (1) That an order has been received by a firm on behalf of one or more United States customers; (2) that an order has been executed on an exchange on behalf of one or more United States customers; (3) that funds to margin, guarantee or secure United States customer transactions have been received by a firm and deposited in an appropriate depository; and (4) the price at which a transaction was executed and general access to pricing information.

Again, such information is likely to be maintained in the ordinary course of business. Tracing of customer funds would be most essential in cases of insolvency where repatriation of funds is at issue.

The Commission may also seek relevant position data information, including the identity of the position holder and related positions, in connection with surveillance of a potential "market disruption." This is particularly true in the case of integrated markets.

The Commission wishes to emphasize that the information sharing arrangements discussed herein are not necessarily a substitute for, nor would they preclude, a more formal agreement or arrangement with respect to the sharing of information.

FR date and citation: November 3, 1992, 57 FR 49644; August 17, 1994, 59 FR 42158.
