
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 31 - LEVERAGE TRANSACTIONS
#### ยง 31.6 Registration of leverage commodities.
##### Application for registration.

(b)Applications to register leverage commodities should be filed with the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters. Attn: Secretariat. Three copies of each such submission should be filed. The Commission may return any application which does not comply with the form and content requirements of this section. Each applicant must:

(1) Provide evidence that the person applying for registration of the leverage commodity is registered or has applied to the National Futures Association for registration as a leverage transaction merchant;

(2) Provide an explanation of the distinguishing characteristics of the leverage commodity for which registration is sought, including a complete description of the cash market for the leverage commodity, and for the spot, forward, and futures markets for the generic commodity;

(3) Specify a commercial or retail cash price series including prevailing premiums or discounts governing cash market transactions in the quantities specified by the leverage contract and justify the use of such price series with respect to the particular leverage commodity for which registration is sought;

(4) Provide evidence and a complete evaluation of how the distinguishing characteristics of the leverage commodity would be expected to affect the ability of leverage customers electing to make or take delivery of the commodity at an economic price in normal cash market channels;

(5) Include a description of the commodity inspection and/or certification procedures typically required for commercial or retail sales of the specified commodity. Such description must be accompanied by information regarding the availability of any normally required certification or inspection service at the delivery points including those of the leverage transaction merchant; and

(6) Include copies of all leverage contracts which are to be offered by the leverage transaction merchant on the leverage commodity.
