
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 37 - SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### Appendix A to Part 37 - Form SEF

Intentional misstatements or omissions of material fact may constitute federal criminal violations (7 U.S.C. ยง 13 and 18 U.S.C. ยง 1001) or grounds for disqualification from registration.

Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this Form SEF have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended ("Act"), and in the General Rules and Regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("Commission") thereunder.

For the purposes of this Form SEF, the term "Applicant" shall include any applicant for registration as a swap execution facility, any applicant amending a pending application, or any registered swap execution facility that is applying for an amendment to its order of registration.

1. This Form SEF, which includes instructions, a Cover Sheet, and required Exhibits (together, "Form SEF"), is to be filed with the Commission by all Applicants, pursuant to section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Applicants may prepare their own Form SEF but must follow the format prescribed herein. Upon the filing of an application for registration or a registration amendment in accordance with the instructions provided herein, the Commission will publish notice of the filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such application. No application for registration or registration amendment shall be effective unless the Commission, by order, grants such registration or amended registration.

2. Individuals' names, except the executing signature, shall be given in full (Last Name, First Name, Middle Name).

3. Signatures on all copies of the Form SEF filed with the Commission can be executed electronically. If this Form SEF is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name of the corporation by a principal officer duly authorized; if filed by a limited liability company, it shall be signed in the name of the limited liability company by a manager or member duly authorized to sign on the limited liability company's behalf; if filed by a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of the partnership by a general partner duly authorized; if filed by an unincorporated organization or association which is not a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of such organization or association by the managing agent, i.e., a duly authorized person who directs or manages or who participates in the directing or managing of its affairs.

4. If this Form SEF is being filed as an application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is inapplicable, indicate by "none," "not applicable," or "N/A," as appropriate.

5. Under section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form SEF from any Applicant seeking registration as a swap execution facility and from any registered swap execution facility. Disclosure by the Applicant of the information specified on this Form SEF is mandatory prior to the start of the processing of an application for, or an amendment to, registration as a swap execution facility. The information provided in this Form SEF will be used for the principal purpose of determining whether the Commission should grant or deny registration to an Applicant. The Commission may determine that additional information is required from the Applicant in order to process its application. A Form SEF which is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing. Acceptance of this Form SEF, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form SEF has been filed as required or that the information submitted is true, current, or complete.

6. Except in cases where confidential treatment is requested by the Applicant and granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and the rules of the Commission thereunder, information supplied on this Form SEF will be included routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person.

1. An Applicant amending a pending application for registration as a swap execution facility or requesting an amendment to an order of registration shall file an amended Form SEF electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission. Otherwise, a swap execution facility shall file any amendment to this Form SEF as a submission under part 40 of the Commission's regulations or as specified by the Commission.

2. When filing this Form SEF for purposes of amending a pending application or requesting an amendment to an order of registration, Applicants must re-file the Cover Sheet, amended if necessary and including an executing signature, and attach thereto revised Exhibits or other materials marked to show changes, as applicable. The submission of an amendment represents that the remaining items and Exhibits that are not amended remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.

This Form SEF must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.

If this is an APPLICATION for registration, complete in full and check here.

If this is an AMENDMENT to an application, or to an existing order of registration, list all items that are amended and check here.

1. Name under which the business of the swap execution facility is or will be conducted, if different than name specified above (include acronyms, if any):

2. If name of swap execution facility is being amended, state previous swap execution facility name:

3. Contact information, including mailing address if different than address specified above:

4. List of principal office(s) and address(es) where swap execution facility activities are/will be conducted:

5. If the Applicant is a successor to a previously registered swap execution facility, please complete the following:

a. Date of succession

b. Full name and address of predecessor registrant

6. Applicant is a:

7. Date of incorporation or formation:

8. State of incorporation or jurisdiction of organization:

9. The Applicant agrees and consents that the notice of any proceeding before the Commission in connection with this application may be given by sending such notice by certified mail to the person named below at the address given.

10. The Applicant has duly caused this application or amendment to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, this ______ day of ____________, 20____. The Applicant and the undersigned represent hereby that all information contained herein is true, current, and complete. It is understood that all required items and Exhibits are considered integral parts of this Form SEF and that the submission of any amendment represents that all unamended items and Exhibits remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.

The following Exhibits must be filed with the Commission by each Applicant applying for registration as a swap execution facility, or by a registered swap execution facility amending its registration, pursuant to section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. The Exhibits must be labeled according to the items specified in this Form SEF.

The application must include a Table of Contents listing each Exhibit required by this Form SEF and indicating which, if any, Exhibits are inapplicable. For any Exhibit that is inapplicable, next to the Exhibit letter specify "none," "not applicable," or "N/A," as appropriate.
