
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 37 - SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### Appendix A to Part 37 - Form SEF
##### i.e.,

b. Provide a narrative of how the value of the financial resources of the Applicant is at least equal to a total amount that would enable the Applicant to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis, and whether such financial resources include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months' operating costs.

c. Attach copies of any agreements establishing or amending a credit facility, insurance coverage, or other arrangement evidencing or otherwise supporting the Applicant's conclusions regarding the liquidity of its financial assets.

d. Representations regarding sources and estimates for future ongoing operational resources.

10. Attach as Exhibit J, a balance sheet and an income and expense statement for each affiliate of the swap execution facility that also engages in swap execution facility activities or that engages in designated contract market activities as of the end of the most recent fiscal year of each such affiliate.

11. Attach as Exhibit K, the following:

a. A complete list of all dues, fees, and other charges imposed, or to be imposed, by or on behalf of the Applicant for its swap execution facility services that are provided on an exclusive basis and identify the service or services provided for each such due, fee, or other charge.

b. A description of the basis and methods used in determining the level and structure of the dues, fees, and other charges listed in paragraph (a) of this item.

c. If the Applicant differentiates, or proposes to differentiate, among its customers or classes of customers in the amount of any dues, fees, or other charges imposed for the same or similar exclusive services, describe and indicate the amount of each differential. In addition, identify and describe any differences in the cost of providing such services and any other factors that account for such differentiations.

12. Attach as Exhibit L, a narrative and any other form of documentation that may be provided under other Exhibits herein, that describes the manner in which the Applicant is able to comply with each core principle. Such documentation must include a regulatory compliance chart setting forth each core principle and providing citations to the Applicant's relevant rules, policies, and procedures that address each core principle. To the extent that the application raises issues that are novel or for which compliance with a core principle is not self-evident, include an explanation of how that item and the application satisfy the core principles.

13. Attach as Exhibit M, a copy of the Applicant's rules (as defined in ยง 40.1 of the Commission's regulations) and any technical manuals, other guides, or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market, including minimum financial standards for members or market participants. Include rules citing applicable federal position limits and aggregation standards in part 151 of the Commission's regulations and any facility set position limit rules. Include rules on publication of daily trading information with regards to the requirements of part 16 of the Commission's regulations. The Applicant should include an explanation and any other form of documentation that the Applicant thinks will be helpful to its explanation, demonstrating how its rules, technical manuals, other guides, or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market, or minimum financial standards for members or market participants as provided in this Exhibit M help support the swap execution facility's compliance with the core principles.

14. Attach as Exhibit N, executed or executable copies of any agreements or contracts entered into or to be entered into by the Applicant, including third party regulatory service provider or member or user agreements that enable or empower the Applicant to comply with applicable core principles. Identify: (1) the services that will be provided; and (2) the core principles addressed by such agreement.

15. Attach as Exhibit O, a copy of any compliance manual and any other documents that describe with specificity the manner in which the Applicant will conduct trade practice, market, and financial surveillance.

16. Attach as Exhibit P, a description of the Applicant's disciplinary and enforcement protocols, tools, and procedures and, if applicable, the arrangements for alternative dispute resolution.

17. Attach as Exhibit Q, an explanation regarding the operation of the Applicant's trading system(s) or platform(s) and the manner in which the system(s) or platform(s) satisfy any Commission rules, interpretations, or guidelines regarding a swap execution facility's execution methods, including the minimum trading functionality requirement in ยง 37.3(a)(2) of the Commission's regulations. This explanation should include, as applicable, the following:

a. For trading systems or platforms that enable market participants to engage in transactions through an order book:

(1) How the trading system or platform displays all orders and trades in an electronic or other form, and the timeliness in which the trading system or platform does so;

(2) How all market participants have the ability to see and have the ability to transact on all bids and offers; and

(3) An explanation of the trade matching algorithm, if applicable, and examples of how that algorithm works in various trading scenarios involving various types of orders.

b. For trading systems or platforms that enable market participants to engage in transactions through a request for quote system:

(1) How a market participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument to no less than three market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such market participants may respond;

(2) How resting bids or offers from the Applicant's Order Book are communicated to the requester; and

(3) How a requester may transact on resting bids or offers along with the responsive orders.

c. How the timing delay described under ยง 37.9 of the Commission's regulations is incorporated into the trading system or platform.

18. Attach as Exhibit R, a list of rules prohibiting specific trade practice violations.

19. Attach as Exhibit S, a discussion of how trading data will be maintained by the swap execution facility.

20. Attach as Exhibit T, a list of the name of the clearing organization(s) that will be clearing the Applicant's trades, and a representation that clearing members of that organization will be guaranteeing such trades.

21. Attach as Exhibit U, any information (described with particularity) included in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to ยง 145.9 of the Commission's regulations.

22. Attach as Exhibit V, information responsive to the Technology Questionnaire. This questionnaire focuses on information pertaining to the Applicant's program of risk analysis and oversight. Main topic areas include: information security; business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources; capacity and performance planning; systems operations; systems development and quality assurance; and physical security and environmental controls. The questionnaire will be provided to Applicants on the Commission's Web site.
