
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 37 - SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### Appendix B to Part 37 - Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles
##### Hearings.

(10)(i) The swap execution facility need not apply the formal rules of evidence for a hearing; nevertheless, the procedures for the hearing may not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing. No member of the disciplinary panel for the matter may have a financial, personal, or other direct interest in the matter under consideration.

(ii) In advance of the hearing, the respondent should be entitled to examine all books, documents, or other evidence in the possession or under the control of the swap execution facility. The swap execution facility may withhold documents that: Are privileged or constitute attorney work product; were prepared by an employee of the swap execution facility but will not be offered in evidence in the disciplinary proceedings; may disclose a technique or guideline used in examinations, investigations, or enforcement proceedings; or disclose the identity of a confidential source.

(iii) The swap execution facility's enforcement and compliance staffs should be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff should present their case on those charges and sanctions that are the subject of the hearing.

(iv) The respondent should be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, should be entitled to cross-examine any persons appearing as witnesses at the hearing, and should be entitled to call witnesses and to present such evidence as may be relevant to the charges.

(v) The swap execution facility should require persons within its jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and produce evidence. The swap execution facility should make reasonable efforts to secure the presence of all other persons called as witnesses whose testimony would be relevant.

(vi) The rules of a swap execution facility may provide that a sanction may be summarily imposed upon any person within its jurisdiction whose actions impede the progress of a hearing.
