
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 37 - SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### Appendix B to Part 37 - Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles
##### Guidance.

(a)(1) In general, a swap contract is an agreement to exchange a series of cash flows over a period of time based on some reference price, which could be a single price, such as an absolute level or a differential, or a price index calculated based on multiple observations. Moreover, such a reference price may be reported by the swap execution facility itself or by an independent third party. When listing a swap for trading, a swap execution facility shall ensure a swap's compliance with Core Principle 3, paying special attention to the reference price used to determine the cash flow exchanges. Specifically, Core Principle 3 requires that the reference price used by a swap not be readily susceptible to manipulation. As a result, when identifying a reference price, a swap execution facility should either: Calculate its own reference price using suitable and well-established acceptable methods or carefully select a reliable third-party index.

(2) The importance of the reference price's suitability for a given swap is similar to that of the final settlement price for a cash-settled futures contract. If the final settlement price is manipulated, then the futures contract does not serve its intended price discovery and risk management functions. Similarly, inappropriate reference prices cause the cash flows between the buyer and seller to differ from the proper amounts, thus benefitting one party and disadvantaging the other. Thus, careful consideration should be given to the potential for manipulation or distortion of the reference price.

(3) For swaps that are settled by physical delivery or by cash settlement refer to the guidance in appendix C to part 38 of this chapter-Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract is not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation, section b(2) and section c(4), respectively.
