
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 37 - SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES
#### Appendix B to Part 37 - Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles
##### General requirements.

(1)Real-time monitoring for market anomalies is the most effective, but the swap execution facility may also demonstrate that it has an acceptable program if some of the monitoring is accomplished on a T+1 basis. The monitoring of trading should use automated alerts to detect abnormal price movements and unusual trading volumes in real-time and instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions on at least a T+1 basis. The T+1 detection and analysis should incorporate any additional data that becomes available on a T+1 basis, including the trade reconstruction data. In some cases, a swap execution facility may demonstrate that its manual processes are effective. The swap execution facility should continually monitor the appropriateness of its swaps' terms and conditions, including the physical-delivery requirements or reference prices used to determine cash flows or settlement. The swap execution facility should act promptly to address the conditions that are causing price distortions or market disruptions, including, when appropriate, changes to contract terms. The swap execution facility should be mindful that changes to contract terms may affect whether a product is subject to the trade execution and clearing requirements of the Act.
