
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
#### Minimum Financial and Related Reporting Requirements
##### ยง 1.10 Financial reports of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.
###### 1,2,3

(B) Each person filing in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) (), () or () of this section must include with such financial report a statement describing the source of his current assets and representing that his capital has been contributed for the purpose of operating his business and will continue to be used for such purpose.

(3)(i) The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not apply to any person succeeding to and continuing the business of another futures commission merchant. Each such person who files an application for registration as a futures commission merchant and who is not so registered in that capacity at the time of such filing must file a Form 1-FR-FCM as of the first month end following the date on which his registration is approved. Such report must be filed with the National Futures Association, the Commission and the designated self-regulatory organization, if any, not more than 17 business days after the date for which the report is made.

(ii) The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not apply to any person succeeding to and continuing the business of another introducing broker.

(A) Each such person who succeeds to and continues the business of an introducing broker which was not operating pursuant to a guarantee agreement, or which was operating pursuant to a guarantee agreement and was also a securities broker or dealer at the time of succession, who files an application for registration as an introducing broker, and who is not so registered in that capacity at the time of such filing, must file with the National Futures Association either a guarantee agreement with his application for registration or a Form 1-FR-IB as of the first month end following the date on which his registration is approved. Such Form 1-FR-IB must be filed not more than 17 business days after the date for which the report is made.

(B) Each such person who succeeds to and continues the business of an introducing broker which was operating pursuant to a guarantee agreement and which was not also a securities broker or dealer at the time of succession, who files an application for registration as an introducing broker, and who is not so registered in that capacity at the time of such filing, must file with the National Futures Association either a guarantee agreement or a Form 1-FR-IB with his application for registration. If such person files a Form 1-FR-IB with his application for registration, such person must also file a Form 1-FR-IB, certified by an independent public accountant, as of a date no later than the end of the month registration is granted. The Form 1-FR-IB certified by an independent public accountant must be filed with the National Futures Association not more than 45 days after the date for which the report is made.
