
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 38 - DESIGNATED CONTRACT MARKETS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 38.3 Procedures for designation.
###### Application procedures.,submissions@cftc.gov,DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov.

(a)(1) A board of trade seeking designation as a contract market must file electronically, in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission, the Form DCM provided in appendix A of this part, with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters atand the Division of Market Oversight atThe Commission will review the application for designation as a contract market pursuant to the 180-day timeframe and procedures specified in section 6(a) of the Act. The Commission shall approve or deny the application or, if deemed appropriate, designate the applicant as a contract market subject to conditions.

(2) The application must include information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the core principles specified in section 5(d) of the Act. Form DCM consists of instructions, general questions and a list of exhibits (documents, information and evidence) required by the Commission in order to determine whether an applicant is able to comply with the core principles. An application will not be considered to be materially complete unless the applicant has submitted, at a minimum, the exhibits required in Form DCM. If the application is not materially complete, the Commission shall notify the applicant that the application will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of starting the 180-day review period set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) The applicant must identify with particularity any information in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to ยง 145.9 of this chapter.

(4) Section 40.8 of this chapter sets forth those sections of the application that will be made publicly available, notwithstanding a request for confidential treatment pursuant to ยง 145.9 of this chapter.

(5) If any information contained in the application or in any exhibit is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, an amendment to the application or a submission filed under part 40 of this chapter must be filed promptly correcting such information.
