
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
#### Minimum Financial and Related Reporting Requirements
##### ยง 1.10 Financial reports of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.
###### Introducing broker registrants.

(ii)(A) An introducing broker may file with the National Futures Association an application for extension of the time, which shall be approved or denied in writing.

(B) An introducing broker that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a securities broker or dealer may file with the National Futures Association copies of any application that the registrant has filed with its designated examining authority, pursuant to ยง 240.17-a5(l)(5) of this title, for an extension of time to file its FOCUS report. The registrant must also file immediately with the National Futures Association copies of any notice it receives from its designated examining authority to approve or deny the requested extension of time. Upon the receipt by the National Futures Association of a copy of any such notice of approval, the requested extension of time referenced in the notice shall be deemed approved under this paragraph (f)(1)(ii).

(2) In the event an applicant finds that it cannot file its report for any period within the time specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section without substantial undue hardship, it may file with the National Futures Association an application for an extension of time to a specified date which may not be more than 90 days after the date as of which the financial statements were to have been filed. The application must state the reasons for the requested extension and must contain an agreement to file the report on or before the specified date. The application must be received by the National Futures Association before the time specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for filing the report. Notice of such application must be filed with the regional office of the Commission with jurisdiction over the state in which the applicant's principal place of business is located concurrently with the filing of such application with the National Futures Association. Within ten calendar days after receipt of the application for an extension of time, the National Futures Association shall:

(i) Notify the applicant of the grant or denial of the requested extension; or

(ii) Indicate to the applicant that additional time is required to analyze the request, in which case the amount of time needed will be specified.
