
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 38 - DESIGNATED CONTRACT MARKETS
#### Appendix C to Part 38 - Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract Is Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
##### i.e.

(2) A detailed cash market description for physical and cash-settled contracts. Such descriptions should be based on government and/or other publicly-available data whenever possible and be formulated for both the national and regional/local market relevant to the underlying commodity. For tangible commodities, the cash market descriptions for the relevant market (, national and regional/local) should incorporate at least three full years of data that may include, among other factors, production, consumption, stocks, imports, exports, and prices. Each of those cash market variables should be fully defined and the data sources should be fully specified and documented to permit Commission staff to replicate the estimates of deliverable supply (defined in paragraph (b)(1)(A) of this appendix C). Whenever possible, the Commission requests that monthly or daily prices (depending on the contract) underlying the cash settlement index be submitted for the most recent three full calendar years and for as many of the current year's months for which data are available. For contracts that are cash settled to an index, the index's methodology should be provided along with supporting information showing how the index is reflective of the underlying cash market, is not readily subject to manipulation or distortion, and is based on a cash price series that is reliable, acceptable, publicly available and timely (defined in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this appendix C). The Commission recognizes that the data necessary for accurate and cogent cash market analyses for an underlying commodity vary with the nature of the underlying commodity. The Commission may require that the designated contract market submit a detailed report on commodity definitions and uses.
