
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 38 - DESIGNATED CONTRACT MARKETS
#### Appendix C to Part 38 - Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract Is Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
##### Options on a Futures Contract.

(d)(1) The Commission's experience with the oversight of trading in futures option contracts indicates that most of the terms and conditions associated with such trading do not raise any regulatory concerns or issues. The Commission has found that the following terms do not affect an option contract's susceptible to manipulation or its utility for risk management. Thus, the Commission believes that, in most cases, any specification of the following terms would be acceptable; the only requirement is that such terms be specified in an automatic and objective manner in the option contract's rules:

&#x25CB; Exercise method;

&#x25CB; Exercise procedure (if positions in the underlying futures contract are established via book entry);

&#x25CB; Strike price listing provisions, including provisions for listing strike prices on a discretionary basis;

&#x25CB; Strike price intervals;

&#x25CB; Automatic exercise provisions;

&#x25CB; Contract size (unless not set equal to the size of the underlying futures contract); and

&#x25CB; Option minimum tick should be equal to or smaller than that of the underlying futures contract.

(2) Option Expiration & Last Trading Day. For options on futures contracts, specification of expiration dates should consider the relationship of the option expiration date to the delivery period for the underlying futures contract. In particular, an assessment should be made of liquidity in the underlying futures market to assure that any futures contracts acquired through exercise can be liquidated without adversely affecting the orderly liquidation of futures positions or increasing the underlying futures contract's susceptibility to manipulation. When the underlying futures contract exhibits a very low trading activity during an expiring delivery month's final trading days or has a greater risk of price manipulation than other contracts, the last trading day and expiration day of the option should occur prior to the delivery period or the settlement date of the underlying future. For example, the last trading day and option expiration day might appropriately be established prior to first delivery notice day for option contracts with underlying futures contracts that have very limited deliverable supplies. Similarly, if the futures contract underlying an option contract is cash settled using cash prices from a very limited number of underlying cash market transactions, the last trading and option expiration days for the option contract might appropriately be established prior to the last trading day for the futures contract.

(3) Speculative Limits. In cases where the terms of an underlying futures contract specify a spot-month speculative position limit and the option contract expires during, or at the close of, the futures contract's delivery period, the option contract should include a spot-month speculative position limit provision that requires traders to combine their futures and option position and be subject to the limit established for the futures contract. Specific rules and policies for speculative position limits are set forth in part 150 and/or part 151, as applicable, of the Commission's regulations.

(4) Options on Physicals Contracts.

(i) Under the Commission's regulations, the term "option on physicals" refers to option contracts that do not provide for exercise into an underlying futures contract. Upon exercise, options on physicals can be settled via physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by a cash payment. Thus, options on physicals raise many of the same issues associated with trading in futures contracts regarding adequacy of deliverable supplies or acceptability of the cash settlement price series. In this regard, an option that is cash settled based on the settlement price of a futures contract would be considered an "option on physicals" and the futures settlement price would be considered the cash price series.

(ii) In view of the above, acceptable practices for the terms and conditions of options on physicals contracts include, as appropriate, those practices set forth above for physical-delivery or cash-settled futures contracts plus the practices set forth for options on futures contracts.
