
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 39 - DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS
#### Subpart B - Compliance with Core Principles
##### ยง 39.11 Financial resources.
###### Calculation of financial resources requirements.

(c)(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall, on a monthly basis, perform stress tests that will allow it to make a reasonable calculation of the financial resources needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to calculate the requirements, subject to the limitations identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and provided that the methodology must take into account both historical data and hypothetical scenarios. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate. The requirements of this paragraph (c) do not apply to fully collateralized positions.

(2) When calculating its largest financial exposure, a derivatives clearing organization:

(i) In netting its exposure against the clearing member's initial margin, shall:

(A) Use only that portion of the margin amount on deposit (including initial margin and any add-ons) that is required; and

(B) Use customer margin (including initial margin and any add-ons) only to the extent permitted by parts 1 and 22 of this chapter, as applicable;

(ii) Shall combine the customer and house stress test losses of each clearing member using the same stress test scenarios;

(iii) May net any gains in the house account with losses in the customer account, if permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules, but shall not net losses in the house account with gains in the customer account; and

(iv) With respect to a clearing member's cleared swaps customer account, may net customer gains against customer losses only to the extent permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules.

(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall, on a monthly basis, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs over a 12-month period in order to determine the amount needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such projected operating costs. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate.
