
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
#### Minimum Financial and Related Reporting Requirements
##### ยง 1.15 Risk assessment reporting requirements for futures commission merchants.
###### Exemptions.

(c)(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any futures commission merchant which holds funds or property of or for futures customers of less than $6,250,000 and has less than $5,000,000 in adjusted net capital as of the futures commission merchant's fiscal year-end; provided, however, that such futures commission merchant is not a clearing member of an exchange.

(2) The Commission may, upon written application by a Reporting Futures Commission Merchant, exempt from the provisions of this section, other than paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any futures commission merchant affiliated with such Reporting Futures Commission Merchant. The term "Reporting Futures Commission Merchant" shall mean, in the case of a futures commission merchant that is affiliated with another registered futures commission merchant, the futures commission merchant which maintains the greater amount of net capital as last reported on its financial reports filed with the Commission pursuant to ยง 1.10 unless another futures commission merchant is acting as the Reporting Broker or Dealer under ยง 240.17h-2T of this title or the Commission permits another futures commission merchant to act as the Reporting Futures Commission Merchant. In granting exemptions under this section, the Commission shall consider, among other factors, whether the records and other information required to be maintained pursuant to ยง 1.14 concerning the Material Affiliated Persons of the futures commission merchant affiliated with the Reporting Futures Commission Merchant will be available to the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section. A request for exemption filed under this paragraph (c)(2) shall explain the basis for the designation of a particular futures commission merchant as the Reporting Futures Commission Merchant and will become effective on the thirtieth day after receipt of such request by the Commission unless the Commission objects to the request by that date. The Reporting Futures Commission Merchant must submit the information required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on behalf of its affiliated futures commission merchants.

(3) The Commission may exempt any futures commission merchant from any provision of this section if it finds that the exemption is not contrary to the public interest and the purposes of the provisions from which the exemption is sought. The Commission may grant the exemption subject to such terms and conditions as it may find appropriate.
