
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 40 - PROVISIONS COMMON TO REGISTERED ENTITIES
#### § 40.6 Self-certification of rules.
##### Required certification.

(a)A registered entity shall comply with the following conditions prior to implementing any rule, other than a rule delisting or withdrawing the certification of a product with no open interest and submitted in compliance with §§ 40.6(a)(1)-(2) and § 40.6(a)(7), that has not obtained Commission approval under § 40.5 of this part, that remains dormant subsequent to being submitted under this section or approved under § 40.5 of this part, or that is submitted under § 40.10 of this part, except as otherwise provided by § 40.10(a):

(1) The registered entity has filed its submission electronically in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission with the Secretary of the Commission.

(2) The registered entity has provided a certification that the registered entity posted a notice of pending certification with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the registered entity's Web site. Information that the registered entity seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the registered entity's Web site but it must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 40.8(c)(4).

(3) The Commission has received the submission not later than the open of business on the business day that is 10 business days prior to the registered entity's implementation of the rule or rule amendment.

(4) The Commission has not stayed the submission pursuant to § 40.6(c).

(5) The rule or rule amendment is not a rule or rule amendment of a designated contract market that materially changes a term or condition of a contract for future delivery of an agricultural commodity enumerated in section 1a(4) of the Act or an option on such a contract or commodity in a delivery month having open interest.
