
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 40 - PROVISIONS COMMON TO REGISTERED ENTITIES
#### § 40.8 Availability of public information.

(a) The following sections of all applications to become a designated contract market, swap execution facility, derivatives clearing organization, or swap data repository shall be made publicly available: Transmittal letter and first page of the application cover sheet, proposed rules, narrative summary of the applicant's proposed activities and regulatory compliance chart, documents establishing the applicant's legal status, documents setting forth the applicant's corporate and governance structure and any other part of the application not covered by a request for confidential treatment.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) A registered entity's filing of new products pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 40.2 of this part, new products for Commission review and approval pursuant to § 40.3 of this part, new rules and rule amendments for Commission review and approval pursuant to § 40.4 or § 40.5 of this part, and new rules and rule amendments pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 40.6 and § 40.10 of this part shall be treated as public information unless accompanied by a request for confidential treatment. If a registered entity files a request for confidential treatment, the following procedures shall apply:

(1) A detailed written justification of the confidential treatment request must be filed simultaneously with the request for confidential treatment. The form and content of the detailed written justification shall be governed by § 145.9 of this chapter;

(2) All material for which confidential treatment is requested must be segregated in an appendix to the submission;

(3) The submission itself must indicate that material has been segregated and, as appropriate, an additional redacted version provided;

(4) Commission staff may make an initial determination with respect to the request for confidential treatment without regard to whether a request for the information has been sought under the Freedom of Information Act;

(5) All requests for confidential treatment shall be subject to the process provided by § 145.9 of this chapter.

(6) A submitter of information under this part may appeal an adverse decision by staff to the Commission's Office of General Counsel. The form and content of such appeal shall be governed by § 145.9(g) of this chapter.

(7) The grant of any part of a request for confidential treatment under this section may be reconsidered if a subsequent request under the Freedom of Information Act is made for the information.

(d) Commission staff will not consider confidential treatment requests for information that is required to be made public under the Act. The terms and conditions of a product submitted to the Commission pursuant to §§ 40.2, 40.3, 40.5 and 40.6 of this part shall be made publicly available at the time of submission.
