
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 41 - SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS
#### Subpart C - Requirements and Standards for Listing Security Futures Products
##### ยง 41.27 Prohibition of dual trading in security futures products by floor brokers.
###### Definitions.

(a)For purposes of this section:

(1) Trading session means hours during which a designated contract market is scheduled to trade continuously during a trading day, as set forth in its rules, including any related post settlement trading session. A designated contract market may have more than one trading session during a trading day.

(2) Member shall have the meaning set forth in section 1a(24) of the Act.

(3) Broker association includes two or more designated contract market members with floor trading privileges of whom at least one is acting as a floor broker who:

(i) Engage in floor brokerage activity on behalf of the same employer;

(ii) Have an employer and employee relationship which relates to floor brokerage activity;

(iii) Share profits and losses associated with their brokerage or trading activity; or

(iv) Regularly share a deck of orders.

(4) Customer means an account owner for which a trade is executed other than:

(i) An account in which such floor broker has any interest;

(ii) An account for which a floor broker has discretion;

(iii) An account controlled by a person with whom a floor broker has a relationship through membership in a broker association;

(iv) A house account of the floor broker's clearing member; or

(v) An account for another member present on the floor of a designated contract market or an account controlled by such other member.

(5) Dual trading means the execution of customer orders by a floor broker through open outcry during the same trading session in which the floor broker executes directly or by initiating and passing to another member, either through open outcry or through a trading system that electronically matches bids and offers pursuant to a predetermined algorithm, a transaction for the same security futures product on the same designated contract market for an account described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
