
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 43 - REAL-TIME PUBLIC REPORTING
#### ยง 43.4 Swap transaction and pricing data to be publicly disseminated in real-time.
##### Initial cap sizes.

(g)Prior to the effective date of a Commission determination to establish an applicable post-initial cap size for a swap category as determined pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, the initial cap sizes for each swap category shall be equal to the greater of the initial appropriate minimum block size for the respective swap category in appendix F of this part or the respective cap sizes in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. If appendix F of this part does not provide an initial appropriate minimum block size for a particular swap category, the initial cap size for such swap category shall be equal to the appropriate cap size as set forth in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.-

(1) For swaps in the interest rate asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be:

(i) USD 250 million for swaps with a tenor greater than zero up to and including two years;

(ii) USD 100 million for swaps with a tenor greater than two years up to and including ten years; and

(iii) USD 75 million for swaps with a tenor greater than ten years.

(2) For swaps in the credit asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 100 million.

(3) For swaps in the equity asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 250 million.

(4) For swaps in the foreign exchange asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 250 million.

(5) For swaps in the other commodity asset class, the publicly disseminated notional or principal amount for a swap subject to the rules in this part shall be USD 25 million.
