
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 43 - REAL-TIME PUBLIC REPORTING
#### § 43.4 Swap transaction and pricing data to be publicly disseminated in real-time.
##### Post-initial cap sizes.

(h)(1) The Commission shall establish, by swap categories, post-initial cap sizes as described in paragraphs (h)(2) through (8) of this section.

(2) The Commission shall determine post-initial cap sizes for the swap categories described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i) through (xii), (c)(4)(i), and (c)(5)(i) of § 43.6 by utilizing reliable data collected by swap data repositories, as determined by the Commission, based on paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. If the Commission is unable to determine a cap size for any swap category described in § 43.6(c)(1)(i), the Commission shall assign a cap size of USD 100 million to such category.

(i) A one-year window of swap transaction and pricing data corresponding to each relevant swap category recalculated no less than once each calendar year; and

(ii) The 75-percent notional amount calculation described in § 43.6(d)(2).

(3) The Commission shall determine the post-initial cap size for a swap category in the foreign exchange asset class described in § 43.6(c)(4)(ii) as the lower of the notional amount of either currency's cap size for the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(4)(i).

(4) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(1)(ii) shall have a cap size of USD 100 million.

(5) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(2)(xiii) shall have a cap size of USD 400 million.

(6) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(3) shall have a cap size of USD 250 million.

(7) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(4)(iii) shall have a cap size of USD 150 million.

(8) All swaps or instruments in the swap category described in § 43.6(c)(5)(ii) shall have a cap size of USD 100 million.
