
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 45 - SWAP DATA RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
#### ยง 45.6 Legal entity identifiers.
##### Use of the legal entity identifier.

(d)(1) Each swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap data repository, entity reporting pursuant to ยง 45.9, and swap counterparty shall use legal entity identifiers to identify itself and swap counterparties in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part. If a swap counterparty is not eligible to receive a legal entity identifier as determined by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System, such counterparty shall be identified in all recordkeeping and all swap data reporting pursuant to this part with an alternate identifier as prescribed by the Commission pursuant to ยง 45.13(a) of this chapter.

(2) Each swap dealer, major swap participant, swap execution facility, designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, and swap data repository shall maintain and renew its legal identity identifier in accordance with the standards set by the Global Legal Entity Identifier System.

(3) Each financial entity reporting counterparty executing a swap with a counterparty that is eligible to receive a legal entity identifier, but has not been assigned a legal entity identifier, shall, prior to reporting any required swap creation data for such swap, use best efforts to cause a legal entity identifier to be assigned to the counterparty. If these efforts do not result in a legal entity identifier being assigned to the counterparty prior to the reporting of required swap creation data, the financial entity reporting counterparty shall promptly provide the identity and contact information of the counterparty to the Commission.

(4) For swaps previously reported pursuant to this part using substitute counterparty identifiers assigned by a swap data repository prior to Commission designation of a legal entity identifier system, each swap data repository shall map the legal entity identifiers for the counterparties to the substitute counterparty identifiers in the record for each such swap.
