
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 46 - SWAP DATA RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS: PRE-ENACTMENT AND TRANSITION SWAPS
#### ยง 46.9 Voluntary supplemental reporting.
##### voluntary, supplemental report

(a) For purposes of this section, the termmeans any report of data for a pre-enactment or transition swap to a swap data repository that is not required to be made pursuant to this part or any other part in this chapter.

(b) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made only by a counterparty to the swap in connection with which the voluntary, supplemental report is made, or by a third-party service provider acting on behalf of a counterparty to the swap.

(c) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made only after the initial data report for the swap required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made.

(d) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap may be made either to the swap data repository to which the initial data report for the swap required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made, or to a different swap data repository.

(e) A voluntary, supplemental report for a pre-enactment or transition swap must contain:

(1) An indication that the report is a voluntary, supplemental report.

(2) The swap data repository identifier created for the swap by the automated systems of the swap data repository to which the initial data report required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made.

(3) An indication of the identity of the swap data repository to which the initial data report required by section 46.3(a) or the report required by section 46.3(b), as applicable, has been made, if the voluntary supplemental report is made to a different swap data repository.

(4) If the pre-enactment or transition swap was in existence on or after April 25, 2011, the legal entity identifier (or substitute identifier) of the counterparty making the voluntary, supplemental report.

(5) If applicable, an indication that the voluntary, supplemental report is made pursuant to the laws or regulations of any jurisdiction outside the United States.

(f) If a counterparty that has made a voluntary, supplemental report discovers any errors in the data for a pre-enactment or a transition swap included in the voluntary, supplemental report, the counterparty must report a correction of each such error to the swap data repository to which the voluntary, supplemental report was made, as soon as technologically practicable after discovery of any such error.
