
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### ยง 48.8 Conditions of registration.
##### 4

() Any other area of interest expressed by the Commission to the foreign board of trade or its regulatory authority;

(D) Provide information to the Commission regarding large trader positions in the linked contract that is comparable to the large trader position information collected by the Commission for the contract to which it is linked; and

(E) Provide the Commission such information as is necessary to publish reports on aggregate trader positions for the linked contract that are comparable to such reports on aggregate trader positions for the contract to which it is linked.

(2) Other Conditions on Linked Contracts.

(i) The foreign board of trade will inform the Commission in a quarterly report of any member that had positions in a linked contract above the applicable foreign board of trade position limit, whether a hedge exemption was granted, and if not, whether a disciplinary action was taken.

(ii) The foreign board of trade will provide the Commission, either directly or through its agent, with trade execution and audit trail data for the Commission's Trade Surveillance System on a trade-date plus one basis and in a form, content and manner acceptable to the Commission for all linked contracts.

(iii) The foreign board of trade will provide to the Commission, at least one day prior to the effective date thereof, except in the event of an emergency market situation, copies of, or hyperlinks to, all rules, rule amendments, circulars and other notices published by the foreign board of trade with respect to all linked contracts.

(iv) The foreign board of trade will provide to the Commission copies of all reports of disciplinary action involving the foreign board of trade's linked contracts upon closure of the action. Such reports should include the reason the action was undertaken, the results of the investigation that led to the disciplinary action, and any sanctions imposed.

(v) In the event that the Commission, pursuant to its emergency powers authority, directs that the registered entity which lists the contract to which the foreign board of trade's contract is linked to take emergency action with respect to a linked contract (for example, to cease trading in the contract), the foreign board of trade, subject to information-sharing arrangements between the Commission and its regulatory authority, will promptly take similar action with respect to the its linked contract.
