
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### ยง 48.9 Revocation of registration.
##### Other events that could result in revocation.

(b)Notwithstanding ยง 48.9(a), revocation under these circumstances will be handled by the Commission as relevant facts or circumstances warrant.

(1) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in the foreign board of trade's application for registration is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade failed to include information in the application that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.

(2) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if there is a material change in the regulatory regime applicable to the foreign board of trade or clearing organization such that the regulatory regime no longer satisfies any registration requirement or condition for registration applicable to the regulatory regime.

(3) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event of an emergency or in a circumstance where the Commission determines that revocation would be necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Following revocation, the Commission will provide notice and an opportunity to respond.

(4) The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration in the event the foreign board of trade or the clearing organization is no longer authorized, licensed or registered, as applicable, as a regulated market and/or exchange or clearing organization or ceases to operate as a foreign board of trade or clearing organization, subject to notice and an opportunity to respond.

(c) Upon request by the Commission, a registered foreign board of trade must file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing such supporting data, information, and documents, in such form and manner and within such timeframe as the Commission may specify, that the foreign board of trade or clearing organization is in compliance with the registration requirements and/or conditions for registration.
