
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### Appendix to Part 48 - Form FBOT
##### FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.

2. Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) (collectively, the "application" or "application for registration") must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission atApplicants may prepare their own Form FBOT, but must follow the format prescribed herein.

3. The name of any individual listed in Form FBOT shall be provided in full (Last Name, First Name and Middle Name or Initial).

4. Form FBOT must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer (or the functional equivalent) of the foreign board of trade who must possess the authority to bind the foreign board of trade.

5. If this Form FBOT is being filed as a new application for registration, all applicable items on the Form FBOT must be answered in full. Non-applicable items should be indicated by marking "none" or "N/A."

6. Submission of a complete Form FBOT (including all information, documentation and exhibits requested therein, and any required supplement) is mandatory and must be received by the Commission before it will begin to process a foreign board of trade's application for registration. The information provided with a Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) will be used to determine whether the Commission should approve or deny registration to an applicant. Pursuant to its regulations, the Commission may determine that information and/or documentation in addition to that requested in the Form FBOT is required from the applicant in order to process the application for registration or to determine whether registration is appropriate.

7. Pursuant to Commission regulations, an applicant or its clearing organization must identify with particularity any information in the application (including, but not limited to, any information contained in this Form FBOT) that will be the subject of a request for confidential treatment and must provide support for any request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures set forth in Commission regulation 145.9.Except in cases where confidential treatment is granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission regulations, information supplied in the Form FBOT (including exhibits and any supplement thereto) will be included routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection and comment by any interested person.

8. A Form FBOT that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing.Acceptance of a Form FBOT by the Commission, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form FBOT has been filed as required or that the information submitted is verified to be true, current, or complete. The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in this Form FBOT is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade failed to include information in this Form FBOT that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.

9. In addition to this Form FBOT, the clearing organization associated with the foreign board of trade must complete and submit Supplement S-1 to this Form FBOT in accordance with the instructions thereto. To the extent a single document or description is responsive to more than one request for the same information in either the Form FBOT or the Supplement S-1, the document or description need only be provided once and may be cross-referenced elsewhere.

10. All documents submitted as part of this Form FBOT (or exhibits thereto) must be written in English or accompanied by a certified English translation.

Pursuant to the Commission's regulations, if any information or documentation contained in this Form FBOT (including exhibits or any supplement or amendment thereto) is or becomes inaccurate for any reason prior to the issuance of an Order of Registration, an amendment correcting such information must be filed promptly with the Commission. A registered foreign board of trade also may submit an amendment to this Form FBOT to correct information that has become inaccurate subsequent to the receipt of an Order of Registration.

1. The following exhibits must be filed with the Commission by any foreign board of trade (1) seeking registration for purposes of granting direct access to its members and other participants or (2) amending a previously submitted application, pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. The information and documentation requested relates to the activities of the foreign board of trade, unless otherwise stated.

2. The exhibits should be filed in accordance with the General Instructions to this Form FBOT and labeled as specified herein. If any exhibit is not applicable, please specify the exhibit letter and number and indicate by marking "none" or "N/A." If any exhibit may be satisfied by documentation or information submitted in a different exhibit, the documentation or information need not be submitted more than once-please use internal cross-references where appropriate.

A foreign board of trade applying for registration must submit sufficient information and documentation to successfully demonstrate to Commission staff that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization satisfy all of the requirements of Commission regulation 48.7. With respect to its review of the foreign board of trade, the Commission anticipates that such information and documentation would necessarily include, but not be limited to, the following:

Attach, asa description of the following for the foreign board of trade: Location, history, size, ownership and corporate structure, governance and committee structure, current or anticipated presence of offices or staff in the United States, and anticipated volume of business emanating from members and other participants that will be provided direct access to the foreign board of trade's trading system.

Attach, asthe following:

Articles of association, constitution, or other similar organizational documents.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) Membership and trading participant agreements.

(2) Clearing agreements.

Attach, asthe following:

Terms and conditions of contracts to be available through direct access (as specified in Exhibit E).

Attach, asthe following:

The national statutes, laws and regulations governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and its respective participants.

Attach, asthe following:

The current rules, regulations, guidelines and bylaws of the foreign board of trade.

Attach, asthe following:

Evidence of the authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade pursuant to the regulatory regime in its home country jurisdiction and a representation by its regulator(s) that it is in good regulatory standing in the capacity in which it is authorized, licensed or registered.

Attach, asthe following document:

A summary of any disciplinary or enforcement actions or proceedings that have been brought against the foreign board of trade, or any of the senior officers thereof, in the past five years and the resolution of those actions or proceedings.

Attach, asthe following document:

An undertaking by the chief executive officer(s) (or functional equivalent[s]) of the foreign board of trade to notify Commission staff promptly if any of the representations made in connection with or related to the foreign board of trade's application for registration cease to be true or correct, or become incomplete or misleading.

Attach, asthe following, separately labeling each description:

(1) A description of the categories of membership and participation in the foreign board of trade and the access and trading privileges provided by the foreign board of trade. The description should include any restrictions applicable to members and other participants to which the foreign board of trade intends to grant direct access to its trading system.

(2) A description of all requirements for each category of membership and participation on the trading system and the manner in which members and other participants are required to demonstrate their compliance with these requirements. The description should include, but not be limited to, the following:

(i) Professional Qualification. A description of the specific professional requirements, qualifications, and/or competencies required of members or other participants and/or their staff and a description of the process by which the foreign board of trade confirms compliance with such requirements.

(ii) Authorization, Licensure and Registration. A description of any regulatory and self-regulatory authorization, licensure or registration requirements that the foreign board of trade imposes upon, or enforces against, its members and other participants including, but not limited to any authorization, licensure or registration requirements imposed by the regulatory regime/authority in the home country jurisdiction(s) of the foreign board of trade. Please also include a description of the process by which the foreign board of trade confirms compliance with such requirements.

(iii) Financial Integrity. A description of the following:

(A) The financial resource requirements, standards, guides or thresholds required of members and other participants.

(B) The manner in which the foreign board of trade evaluates the financial resources/holdings of its members or participants.

(C) The process by which applicants demonstrate compliance with financial requirements for membership or participation including, as applicable:
