
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### Appendix to Part 48 - Form FBOT
##### ii

() Risk management mechanisms for members allowing customers to place orders.

(iv) Fit and Proper Standards. A description of how the foreign board of trade ensures that potential members/other participants meet fit and proper standards.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) A description of the requirements applicable to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the foreign board of trade.

(2) A description of the process by which the foreign board of trade ensures that potential governing board and committee members/other participants meet these standards.

(3) A description of the provisions to minimize and resolve conflicts of interest with respect to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the foreign board of trade.

(4) A description of the rules with respect to the disclosure of material non-public information obtained as a result of a member's or other participant's performance on the governing board or significant committee.

Attach, asa description of (or where appropriate, documentation addressing) the following, separately labeling each description:

(1) The order matching/trade execution system, including a complete description of all permitted ways in which members or other participants (or their customers) may connect to the trade matching/execution system and the related requirements (for example, authorization agreements).

(2) The architecture of the systems, including hardware and distribution network, as well as any pre- and post-trade risk-management controls that are made available to system users.

(3) The security features of the systems.

(4) The length of time such systems have been operating.

(5) Any significant system failures or interruptions.

(6) The nature of any technical review of the order matching/trade execution system performed by the foreign board of trade, the home country regulator, or a third party.

(7) Trading hours.

(8) Types and duration of orders accepted.

(9) Information that must be included on orders.

(10) Trade confirmation and error trade procedures.

(11) Anonymity of participants.

(12) Trading system connectivity with clearing system.

(13) Response time.

(14) Ability to determine depth of market.

(15) Market continuity provisions.

(16) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

Attach, asa description of the manner in which the foreign board of trade assures the following with respect to the trading system, separately labeling each description:

(1) Algorithm. The trade matching algorithm matches trades fairly and timely.

(2) IOSCO Principles. The trading system complies with the Principles for the Oversight of Screen-Based Trading Systems for Derivative Products developed by the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO Principles). Provide a copy of any independent certification received or self-certification performed and identify any system deficiencies with respect to the IOSCO Principles.

(3) Audit Trail.

(i) The audit trail timely captures all relevant data, including changes to orders.

(ii) Audit trail data is securely maintained and available for an adequate time period.

(4) Public Data. Adequate and appropriate trade data is available to users and the public.

(5) Reliability. The trading system has demonstrated reliability.

(6) Secure Access. Access to the trading system is secure and protected.

(7) Emergency Provisions. There are adequate provisions for emergency operations and disaster recovery.

(8) Data Loss Prevention. Trading data is backed up to prevent loss of data.

(9) Contracts Available. Mechanisms are available to ensure that only those futures, option or swap contracts that have been identified to the Commission as part of the application or permitted to be made available for trading by direct access pursuant to the procedures set forth in ยง 48.10 are made available for trading by direct access.

(10) Predominance of the Centralized Market. Mechanisms are available that ensure a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions.

Attach, asa description of the terms and conditions of futures, option or swap contracts intended to be made available for direct access. With respect to each contract, indicate whether the contract is regulated or otherwise treated as a futures, option or swap contract in the regulatory regime(s) of the foreign board of trade's home country.
