
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### Appendix to Part 48 - Form FBOT
##### i.e.,

Asidentify any contracts that have any other relationship with a contract listed for trading on a registered entity,both the foreign board of trade's and the registered entity's contract settle to the price of the same third party-constructed index.

Asdemonstrate that the contracts are not readily susceptible to manipulation. In addition, for each contract to be listed, describe each investigation, action, proceeding or case involving manipulation and involving such contract in the three years preceding the application date, whether initiated by the foreign board of trade, a regulatory or self-regulatory authority or agency or other government or prosecutorial agency. For each such action, proceeding or case, describe the alleged manipulative activity and the current status or resolution thereof.

With respectto each relevant regulatory regime or authority governing the foreign board of trade, attach, asthe following (including, where appropriate, an indication as to whether the applicable regulatory regime is dependent on the home country's classification of the product being traded on the foreign board of trade as a future, option, swap, or otherwise, and a description of any difference between the applicable regulatory regime for each product classification type):

(1) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's structure, resources, staff, and scope of authority; the regulatory regime/authority's authorizing statutes, including the source of its authority to supervise the foreign board of trade; the rules and policy statements issued by the regulator with respect to the authorization and continuing oversight of markets, electronic trading systems, and clearing organizations; and the financial protections afforded customer funds.

(2) A description of and, where applicable, copies of the laws, rules, regulations and policies applicableto:

(i) The authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade.

(ii) The regulatory regime/authority's program for the ongoing supervision and oversight of the foreign board of trade and the enforcement of its trading rules.

(iii) The financial resource requirements applicable to the authorization, licensure or registration of the foreign board of trade and the continued operations thereof.

(iv) The extent to which the IOSCO Principles are used or applied by the regulatory regime/authority in its supervision and oversight of the foreign board of trade or are incorporated into its rules and regulations and the extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews the applicable trading systems for compliance therewith.

(v) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves the trading rules of the foreign board of trade prior to their implementation.

(vi) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves futures, option or swap contracts prior to their being listed for trading.

(vii) The regulatory regime/authority's approach to the detection and deterrence of abusive trading practices, market manipulation, and other unfair trading practices or disruptions of the market.

(3) A description of the laws, rules, regulations and policies that govern the authorization and ongoing supervision and oversight of market intermediaries who may deal with members and other participants located in the United States participants, including:

(i) Recordkeeping requirements.

(ii) The protection of customer funds.

(iii) Procedures for dealing with the failure of a market intermediary in order to minimize damage and loss to investors and to contain systemic risk.

(4) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's inspection, investigation and surveillance powers; and the program pursuant to which the regulatory regime/authority uses those powers to inspect, investigate, and enforce rules applicable to the foreign board of trade.

(5) For both the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization (unless addressed in Supplement S-1), a report confirming that the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are in regulatory good standing, which report should be prepared subsequent to consulting with the regulatory regime/authority governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and any associated clearing organization. The report should include:

(i) Confirmation of regulatory status (including proper authorization, licensure and registration) of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization.

(ii) Any recent oversight reports generated by the regulatory regime/authority that are, in the judgment of the regulatory regime/authority, relevant to the foreign board of trade's status as a registered foreign board of trade.

(iii) Disclosure of any significant regulatory concerns, inquiries or investigations by the regulatory regime/authority, including any concerns, inquiries or investigations with regard to the foreign board of trade's arrangements to monitor trading by members or other participants located in the United States or the adequacy of the risk management controls of the trading or of the clearing system.

(iv) A description of any investigations (formal or informal) or disciplinary actions initiated by the regulatory regime/authority or any other self-regulatory, regulatory or governmental entity against the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization or any of their respective senior officers during the past year.

(6) For both the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization (unless addressed in Supplement S-1), a confirmation that the regulatory regime/authority governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and the clearing organization agree to cooperate with a Commission staff visit subsequent to submission of the application on an "as needed basis," the objectives of which will be to, among other things, familiarize Commission staff with supervisory staff of the regulatory regime/authority; discuss the laws, rules and regulations that formed the basis of the application and any changes thereto; discuss the cooperation and coordination between the authorities, including, without limitation, information sharing arrangements; and discuss issues of concern as they may develop from time to time (for example, linked contracts or unusual trading that may be of concern to Commission surveillance staff).

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the foreign board of trade's regulatory or compliance department, including its size, experience level, competencies, duties and responsibilities.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the foreign board of trade's trade practice rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following-

(1) Capacity of the foreign board of trade to detect, investigate, and sanction persons who violate foreign board of trade rules.

(2) Prohibition of fraud and abuse, as well as abusive trading practices including, but not limited to, wash sales and trading ahead, and other market abuses.

(3) A trade surveillance system appropriate to the foreign board of trade and capable of detecting and investigating potential trade practice violations.

(4) An audit trail that captures and retains sufficient order and trade-related data to allow the compliance staff to detect trading and market abuses and to reconstruct all transactions within a reasonable period of time.

(5) Appropriate resources to conduct real-time supervision of trading.

(6) Sufficient compliance staff and resources, including those outsourced or delegated to third parties, to fulfill regulatory responsibilities.

(7) Rules that authorize compliance staff to obtain, from market participants, information and cooperation necessary to conduct effective rule enforcement and investigations.

(8) Staff investigations and investigation reports demonstrating that the compliance staff investigates suspected rule violations and prepares reports of their finding and recommendations.

(9) Rules determining access requirements with respect to the persons that may trade on the foreign board of trade, and the means by which they connect to it.

(10) The requirement that market participants submit to the foreign board of trade's jurisdiction as a condition of access to the market.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the foreign board of trade's disciplinary rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following-

(1) Disciplinary authority and procedures that empower staff to recommend and prosecute disciplinary actions for suspected rule violations and that provide the authority to fine, suspend, or expel any market participant pursuant to fair and clear standards.

(2) The issuance of warning letters and/or summary fines for specified rule violations.

(3) The review of investigation reports by a disciplinary panel or other authority for issuance of charges or instructions to investigate further, or findings that an insufficient basis exists to issue charges.

(4) Disciplinary committees of the foreign board of trade that take disciplinary action via formal disciplinary processes.

(5) Whether and how the foreign board of trade articulates its rationale for disciplinary decisions.

(6) The sanctions for particular violations and a discussion of the adequacy of sanctions with respect to the violations committed and their effectiveness as a deterrent to future violations.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the market surveillance program (and any related rules), addressing the following-

The dedicated market surveillance department or the delegation or outsourcing of that function, including a general description of the staff; the data collected on traders' market activity; data collected to determine whether prices are responding to supply and demand; data on the size and ownership of deliverable supplies; a description of the manner in which the foreign board of trade detects and deters market manipulation; for cash-settled contracts, methods of monitoring the settlement price or value; and any foreign board of trade position limit, position management, large trader or other position reporting system.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) A description of the arrangements among the Commission, the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, and the relevant foreign regulatory authorities that govern the sharing of information regarding the transactions that will be executed pursuant to the foreign board of trade's registration with the Commission and the clearing and settlement of those transactions. This description should address or identify whether and how the foreign board of trade, clearing organization, and the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization agree to provide directly to the Commission information and documentation requested by Commission staff that Commission staff determines is needed:

(i) To evaluate the continued eligibility of the foreign board of trade for registration.

(ii) To enforce compliance with the specified conditions of the registration.

(iii) To enable the CFTC to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations and to provide adequate protection to the public or registered entities.

(iv) To respond to potential market abuse associated with trading by direct access on the registered foreign board of trade.

(v) To enable Commission staff to effectively accomplish its surveillance responsibilities with respect to a registered entity where Commission staff, in its discretion, determines that a contract traded on a registered foreign board of trade may affect such ability.

(2) A statement as to whether and how the foreign board of trade has executed the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement.

(3) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding. If not, describe any substitute information-sharing arrangements that are in place.

(4) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of International Futures Exchanges and Clearing Organizations. If not, a statement as to whether and how they have committed to share the types of information contemplated by the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement with the Commission, whether pursuant to an existing memorandum of understanding or some other arrangement.

Attach, asany additional information or documentation necessary to demonstrate that the requirements for registration applicable to the foreign board of trade set forth in Commission regulation 48.7 are satisfied.

1. Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this supplement have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (CEA or Act),and in the regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Commission or CFTC).

2. For the purposes of this Supplement S-1, the term "applicant" refers to the foreign board of trade applying for registration pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. The term "clearing organization" refers to the clearing organization that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of such foreign board of trade.

1. A Supplement S-1 (including exhibits) shall be completed by each clearing organization that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of a foreign board of trade applying for registration with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of the Commission's regulations. Each clearing organization shall submit a separate Supplement S-1.

2. In the event that the clearing functions of the foreign board of trade applying for registration will be performed by the foreign board of trade itself, the foreign board of trade shall complete this Supplement S-1, but need not duplicate information provided on its Form FBOT. Specific reference to or incorporation of information or documentation (including exhibits) on the associated Form FBOT, where appropriate, is acceptable. To the extent a singular document or description is responsive to more than one request for information in this Supplement S-1, the document or description need only be provided once and may be cross-referenced elsewhere.
