
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### Appendix to Part 48 - Form FBOT
##### FBOTapplications@cftc.gov.

3. Supplement S-1, including exhibits, should accompany the foreign board of trade's Form FBOT and must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission atClearing organizations may prepare their own Supplement S-1, but must follow the format prescribed herein.

4. The name of any individual listed in Supplement S-1 shall be provided in full (Last Name, First Name and Middle Name or Initial).

5. Supplement S-1 must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer (or the functional equivalent) of the clearing organization who must possess the authority to bind the clearing organization.

6. If this Supplement S-1 is being filed in connection with a new application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is not applicable, indicate by marking "none" or "N/A."

7. Submission of a complete Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 (including all information, documentation and exhibits requested therein) is mandatory and must be received by the Commission before it will begin to process a foreign board of trade's application for registration. The information provided with a Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 will be used to determine whether the Commission should approve or deny registration to an applicant. Pursuant to its regulations, the Commission may determine that information and/or documentation in addition to that requested in the Form FBOT and Supplement S-1 is required from the applicant and/or its clearing organization(s) in order to process the application for registration or to determine whether registration is appropriate.

8. Pursuant to Commission regulations, an applicant or its clearing organization must identify with particularity any information in the application (including, but not limited to, any information contained in this Supplement S-1), that will be the subject of a request for confidential treatment and must provide support for any request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures set forth in Commission regulation 145.9.Except in cases where confidential treatment is granted by the Commission, pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission regulations, information supplied in the Supplement S-1 will be included routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person.

9. A Supplement S-1 that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing.Acceptance of either a Form FBOT or Supplement S-1 by the Commission, however, shall not constitute a finding that the either have been filed as required or that the information submitted is verified to be true, current, or complete. The Commission may revoke a foreign board of trade's registration, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that a representation made in this Supplement S-1 is found to be untrue or materially misleading or if the foreign board of trade and/or clearing organization failed to include information in this Supplement S-1 that would have been material to the Commission's determination as to whether to issue an Order of Registration.

10. All documents submitted as part of this Supplement S-1 (or exhibits thereto) must be written in English or accompanied by a certified English translation.

Pursuant to the Commission's regulations, if any information or documentation contained in this Supplement S-1 (including exhibits) is or becomes inaccurate for any reason prior to the issuance of an Order of Registration, an amendment correcting such information must be filed promptly with the Commission. A clearing organization also may submit an amendment to this Supplement S-1 to correct information that has become inaccurate subsequent to the issuance of an Order of Registration.

1. The following exhibits must be filed with the Commission by the clearing organization(s) that will be clearing trades executed on the trading system of a foreign board of trade applying for registration with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 4(b) and part 48 of Commission's regulations. The information and documentation requested relates to the activities of the clearing organization.

2. The exhibits should be filed in accordance with the General Instructions to this Supplement S-1 and labeled as specified herein. If any exhibit is not applicable, please specify the exhibit letter and number and indicate by marking "none" or "N/A." If any exhibit may be satisfied by documentation or information submitted in a different exhibit, the documentation or information need not be submitted more than once-please use internal cross-references where appropriate.

A foreign board of trade applying for registration must submit sufficient information and documentation to successfully demonstrate to Commission staff that the foreign board of trade and its clearing organization satisfy all of the requirements of Commission regulation 48.7. With respect to its review of the foreign board of trade's clearing organization, the Commission anticipates that such information and documentation would necessarily include, but not be limited to, the following:

Attach, asa description of the following for the clearing organization:

Location, history, size, ownership and corporate structure, governance and committee structure, and current or anticipated presence of staff in the United States.

Attach, asthe following:

Articles of association, constitution, or other similar organizational documents.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) Membership and participation agreements.

(2) Clearing agreements.

Attach, asthe following:

The national statutes, laws and regulations governing the activities of the clearing organization and its members.

Attach, asthe following:

The current rules, regulations, guidelines and bylaws of the clearing organization.

Attach, asthe following:

Evidence of the authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization pursuant to the regulatory regime in its home country jurisdiction(s) and a representation by its regulator(s) that it is in good regulatory standing in the capacity in which it is authorized, licensed or registered.

Attach, asthe following document:

A summary of any disciplinary or enforcement actions or proceedings that have been brought against the clearing organization, or any of the senior officers thereof, in the past five years and the resolution of those actions or proceedings.

Attach, asthe following document:

An undertaking by the chief executive officer(s) (or functional equivalent[s]) of the clearing organization to notify Commission staff promptly if any of the representations made in connection with this supplement cease to be true or correct, or become incomplete or misleading.

Attach, asthe following, separately labeling each description:

(1) A description of the categories of membership and participation in the clearing organization and the access and clearing privileges provided to each by the clearing organization.

(2) A description of all requirements for each category of membership and participation and the manner in which members and other participants are required to demonstrate their compliance with these requirements. The description should include, but not be limited to, the following:

(i) Professional Qualification. A description of the specific professional requirements, qualifications, and/or competencies required of members or other participants and/or their staff and a description of the process by which the clearing organization confirms compliance with such requirements.

(ii) Authorization, Licensure and Registration. A description of any regulatory or self-regulatory authorization, licensure or registration requirements that the clearing organization imposes upon, or enforces against, its members and other participants including, but not limited to any authorization, licensure or registration requirements imposed by the regulatory regime/authority in the home country jurisdiction(s) of the clearing organization, and a description of the process by which the clearing organization confirms compliance with such requirements.

(iii) Financial Integrity. A description of the following:

(A) The financial resource requirements, standards, guides or thresholds required of members and other participants.

(B) The manner in which the clearing organization evaluates the financial resources/holdings of its members or other participants.

(C) The process by which applicants for clearing membership or participation demonstrate compliance with financial requirements including:
