
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 48 - REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE
#### Appendix to Part 48 - Form FBOT
##### 2

() Risk management mechanisms.

(iv) Fit and Proper Standards. A description of any other ways in which the clearing organization ensures that potential members/other participants meet fit and proper standards.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) A description of the requirements applicable to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the clearing organization.

(2) A description of how the clearing organization ensures that potential governing board and committee members meet these standards.

(3) A description of the clearing organization's provisions to minimize and resolve conflicts of interest with respect to membership on the governing board and significant committees of the clearing organization.

(4) A description of the clearing organization's rules with respect to the disclosure of material non-public information obtained as a result of a member's performance on the governing board or on a significant committee.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the clearing and settlement systems, including, but not limited to, the manner in which such systems interface with the foreign board of trade's trading system and its members and other participants.

Attach, asthe following:

A certification, signed by the chief executive offer (or functional equivalent) of the clearing organization, that the clearing system observes (1) the current Recommendations for Central Counterparties that have been issued jointly by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions, as updated, revised or otherwise amended, or (2) successor standards, principles and guidance for central counterparties or financial market infrastructures adopted jointly by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems or the International Organization of Securities Commissions (RCCPs).

Attach, asthe following:

A detailed description of the manner in which the clearing organization observes each of the RCCPs or successor standards and documentation supporting the representations made, including any relevant rules or written policies or procedures of the clearing organization. Each RCCP should be addressed separately within the exhibit.

With respect to each relevant regulatory regime or authority governing the clearing organization, attach, asthe following:

(1) A description of the regulatory regime/authority's structure, resources, staff and scope of authority.

(2) The regulatory regime/authority's authorizing statutes, including the source of its authority to supervise the clearing organization.

(3) A description of and, where applicable, copies of the laws, rules, regulations and policies applicable to:

(i) The authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization.

(ii) The financial resource requirements applicable to the authorization, licensure or registration of the clearing organization and the continued operations thereof.

(iii) The regulatory regime/authority's program for the ongoing supervision and oversight of the clearing organization and the enforcement of its clearing rules.

(iv) The extent to which the current RCCPs are used or applied by the regulatory regime/authority in its supervision and oversight of the clearing organization or are incorporated into its rules and regulations and the extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews the clearing systems for compliance therewith.

(v) The extent to which the regulatory regime/authority reviews and/or approves the rules of the clearing organization prior to their implementation.

(vi) The regulatory regime/authority's inspection, investigation and surveillance powers; and the program pursuant to which the regulatory regime/authority uses those powers to inspect, investigate, sanction, and enforce rules applicable to the clearing organization.

(vii) The financial protection afforded customer funds.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the clearing organization's regulatory or compliance department, including its size, experience level, competencies, duties and responsibilities of staff.

Attach, asthe following:

A description of the clearing organization's rules and how they are enforced, with reference to any rules provided as part of Exhibit A-5 that require the clearing organization to comply with one or more of the RCCPs.

Attach, asthe following, to the extent not included in Exhibit F-2:

A description of the clearing organization's disciplinary rules, including but not limited to rules that address the following-

(1) Disciplinary authority and procedures that empower staff to recommend and prosecute disciplinary actions for suspected rule violations and that provide the authority to fine, suspend, or expel any clearing participant pursuant to fair and clear standards.

(2) The issuance of warning letters and/or summary fines for specified rule violations.

(3) The review of investigation reports by a disciplinary panel or other authority for issuance of charges or instructions to investigate further, or findings that an insufficient basis exists to issue charges.

(4) Disciplinary committees of the clearing organization that take disciplinary action via formal disciplinary processes.

(5) Whether and how the clearing organization articulates its rationale for disciplinary decisions.

(6) The sanctions for particular violations and a discussion of the adequacy of sanctions with respect to the violations committed and their effectiveness as deterrents to future violations.

Attach, asthe following, to the extent not provided in Exhibit F-2:

A demonstration that the clearing organization is authorized by rule or contractual agreement to obtain, from members and other participants, any information and cooperation necessary to conduct investigations, to effectively enforce its rules, and to ensure compliance with the conditions of registration.

Attach, asthe following:

(1) A description of the arrangements among the Commission, the foreign board of trade, the clearing organization, and the relevant foreign regulatory authorities that govern the sharing of information regarding the transactions that will be executed pursuant to the foreign board of trade's registration with the Commission and the clearing and settlement of those transactions. This description should address or identify whether and how the foreign board of trade, clearing organization, and the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization agree to provide directly to the Commission information and documentation requested by Commission staff that Commission staff determines is needed:

(i) To evaluate the continued eligibility of the foreign board of trade for registration.

(ii) To enforce compliance with the specified conditions of the registration.

(iii) To enable the CFTC to carry out its duties under the Act and Commission regulations and to provide adequate protection to the public or registered entities.

(iv) To respond to potential market abuse associated with trading by direct access on the registered foreign board of trade.

(v) To enable Commission staff to effectively accomplish its surveillance responsibilities with respect to a registered entity where Commission staff, in its discretion, determines that a contract traded on a registered foreign board of trade may affect such ability.

(2) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding. If not, describe any substitute information-sharing arrangements that are in place.

(3) A statement as to whether the regulatory authorities governing the activities of the foreign board of trade and clearing organization are signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of International Futures Exchanges and Clearing Organizations. If not, a statement as to whether and how they have committed to share the types of information contemplated by the International Information Sharing Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement with the Commission, whether pursuant to an existing memorandum of understanding or some other arrangement.

Attach, asany additional information or documentation necessary to demonstrate that the requirements for registration applicable to the clearing organization or clearing system set forth in Commission regulation 48.7 are satisfied.
