
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 49 - SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
#### § 49.17 Access to SDR data.
##### Obligations of the swap data repository in connection with appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator requests for swap data access.

(4)(i) A swap data repository shall notify the Commission promptly after receiving an initial request from an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator to gain access to swap data maintained by such swap data repository and promptly after receiving any request that does not comport with the scope of the appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's jurisdiction, as described and appended to the confidentiality arrangement required by § 49.18(a). Each swap data repository shall maintain records thereafter, pursuant to § 49.12, of the details of such initial request and of all subsequent requests by such appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator for such access.

(ii) The swap data repository shall notify the Commission electronically, in a format specified by the Secretary of the Commission, of the receipt of a request specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.

(iii) The swap data repository shall not provide an appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator access to swap data maintained by the swap data repository unless the swap data repository has determined that the swap data to which the appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator seeks access is within the then-current scope of such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's jurisdiction, as described and appended to the confidentiality arrangement required by § 49.18(a). An appropriate domestic regulator or appropriate foreign regulator that has executed a confidentiality arrangement with the Commission pursuant to § 49.18(a) and provided such confidentiality arrangement to one or more swap data repositories shall notify the Commission and each such swap data repository of any change to such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's scope of jurisdiction as described in such confidentiality arrangement. The Commission may direct a swap data repository to suspend, limit, or revoke access to swap data maintained by such swap data repository based on any such change to such appropriate domestic regulator's or appropriate foreign regulator's scope of jurisdiction, and, if so directed in writing, such swap data repository shall so suspend, limit, or revoke such access.

(iv) The swap data repository need not make the determination required pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section more than once with respect to a recurring swap data request. If such request changes, the swap data repository must make a new determination pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
