
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 49 - SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
#### § 49.31 Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight relating to certain part 49 matters.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight and to such members of the Commission staff acting under his or her direction as he or she may designate from time to time:

(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.5.

(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.9.

(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.10.

(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.12.

(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.13.

(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.16.

(7) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.17.

(8) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.18.

(9) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.22.

(10) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.23.

(11) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.24.

(12) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.25.

(13) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.29.

(14) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 49.30.

(b) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
