
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 49 - SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
#### Appendix A to Part 49 - Form SDR
##### i.e.,

3. Signatures on all copies of the Form SDR filed with the Commission can be executed electronically. If this Form SDR is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name of the corporation by a principal officer duly authorized; if filed by a limited liability company, it shall be signed in the name of the limited liability company by a manager or member duly authorized to sign on the limited liability company's behalf; if filed by a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of the partnership by a general partner duly authorized; if filed by an unincorporated organization or association that is not a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of such organization or association by the managing agent,a duly authorized person who directs manages or who participates in the directing or managing of its affairs.

4. If this Form SDR is being filed as an application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is inapplicable, indicate by "none," "not applicable," or "N/A," as appropriate.

5. Under section 21 of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form SDR from any Applicant seeking registration as a swap data repository. Disclosure by the Applicant of the information specified in this Form SDR is mandatory prior to the start of the processing of an application for registration as a swap data repository. The information provided in this Form SDR will be used for the principal purpose of determining whether the Commission should grant or deny registration to an Applicant. The Commission may determine that additional information is required from an Applicant in order to process its application. A Form SDR that is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing. Acceptance of this Form SDR, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form SDR has been filed as required or that the information submitted is true, current, or complete.

6. Except in cases where confidential treatment is requested by the Applicant and granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and Commission Regulation § 145.9, information supplied on this Form SDR will be included in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person. The Applicant must identify with particularity the information in these exhibits that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment and supporting documentation for such request pursuant to Commission Regulations § 40.8 and § 145.9.

1. An Applicant amending a pending application for registration as a swap data repository shall file an amended Form SDR electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.

2. When filing this Form SDR for purposes of amending a pending application, an Applicant must re-file the entire Cover Sheet, amended if necessary, include an executing signature, and attach thereto revised Exhibits or other materials marked to show any amendments. The submission of an amendment to a pending application represents that all unamended items and Exhibits remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.

This Form SDR shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.

The following Exhibits must be included as part of Form SDR and filed with the Commission by each Applicant seeking registration as a swap data repository pursuant to section 21 of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Such Exhibits must be labeled according to the items specified in this Form SDR. If any Exhibit is inapplicable, please specify the Exhibit letter and indicate by "none," "not applicable," or "N/A," as appropriate. The Applicant must identify with particularity the information in these Exhibits that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment and supporting documentation for such request pursuant to Commission Regulations § 40.8 and § 145.9.

If the Applicant is a newly formed enterprise and does not have the financial statements required pursuant to Items 27 and 28 of this form, the Applicant should provide pro forma financial statements for the most recent six months or since inception, whichever is less.

14. Attach as Exhibit A, any person who owns ten (10) percent or more of Applicant's equity or possesses voting power of any class, either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, in any other manner, may control or direct the management or policies of Applicant. "Control" for this purpose is defined in Commission Regulation § 49.2(a).

State in Exhibit A the full name and address of each such person and attach a copy of the agreement or, if there is none written, describe the agreement or basis upon which such person exercises or may exercise such control or direction.

15. Attach as Exhibit B, a narrative that sets forth the fitness standards for the board of directors and its composition including the number or percentage of public directors.

Attach a list of the present officers, directors (including an identification of the public directors), governors (and, if the Applicant is not a corporation, the members of all standing committees grouped by committee), or persons performing functions similar to any of the foregoing, of the swap data repository or of the entity identified in Item 16 that performs the swap data repository activities of the Applicant, indicating for each:

a. Name

b. Title

c. Date of commencement and, if appropriate, termination of present term of position

d. Length of time each present officer, director, or governor has held the same position

e. Brief account of the business experience of each officer and director over the last five (5) years

f. Any other business affiliations in the securities industry or OTC derivatives industry

g. A description of:

(1) any order of the Commission with respect to such person pursuant to section 5e of the Act;

(2) any conviction or injunction within the past 10 years;

(3) any disciplinary action with respect to such person within the last five (5) years;

(4) any disqualification under sections 8b and 8d of the Act;

(5) any disciplinary action under section 8c of the Act; and

(6) any violation pursuant to section 9 of the Act.

h. For directors, list any committees on which the director serves and any compensation received by virtue of their directorship.

16. Attach as Exhibit C, the following information about the chief compliance officer who has been appointed by the board of directors of the swap data repository or a person or group performing a function similar to such board of directors:

a. Name

b. Title

c. Dates of commencement and termination of present term of office or position

d. Length of time the chief compliance officer has held the same office or position

e. Brief account of the business experience of the chief compliance officer over the last five (5) years

f. Any other business affiliations in the derivatives/securities industry or swap data repository industry

g. A description of:

(1) any order of the Commission with respect to such person pursuant to section 5e of the Act;

(2) any conviction or injunction within the past 10 years;

(3) any disciplinary action with respect to such person within the last five (5) years;

(4) any disqualification under sections 8b and 8d of the Act;

(5) any disciplinary action under section 8c of the Act; and

(6) any violation pursuant to section 9 of the Act.

17. Attach as Exhibit D, a copy of documents relating to the governance arrangements of the Applicant, including, but not limited to:

a. The nomination and selection process of the members on the Applicant's board of directors, a person or group performing a function similar to a board of directors (collectively, "board"), or any committee that has the authority to act on behalf of the board, the responsibilities of each of the board and such committee, and the composition of each board and such committee;

b. a description of the manner in which the composition of the board allows the Applicant to comply with applicable core principles, regulations, as well as the rules of the Applicant; and

c. a description of the procedures to remove a member of the board of directors, where the conduct of such member is likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of the swap data repository.
