
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 49 - SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
#### Appendix A to Part 49 - Form SDR
##### e.g.,

18. Attach as Exhibit E, a narrative or graphic description of the organizational structure of the Applicant. Note: If the swap data repository activities are conducted primarily by a division, subdivision, or other segregable entity within the Applicant's corporation or organization, describe the relationship of such entity within the overall organizational structure and attach as Exhibit E only such description as applies to the segregable entity. Additionally, provide any relevant jurisdictional information, including any and all jurisdictions in which the Applicant or any affiliated entity is doing business and registration status, including pending application (country, regulator, registration category, date of registration). In addition, include a description of the lines of responsibility and accountability for each operational unit of the Applicant to (i) any committee thereof and/or (ii) the board.

19. Attach as Exhibit F, a copy of the conflicts of interest policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the swap data repository and to establish a process for the resolution of any such conflicts of interest.

20. Attach as Exhibit G, a list of all affiliates of the swap data repository and indicate the general nature of the affiliation. Provide a copy of any agreements entered into or to be entered by the swap data repository, including partnerships or joint ventures, or its participants, that will enable the Applicant to comply with the registration requirements and core principles specified in section 21 of the Act. With regard to an affiliate that is a parent company of the Applicant, if such parent controls the Applicant, an Applicant must provide (i) the board composition of the parent, including public directors, and (ii) all ownership information requested in Exhibit A for the parent. "Control" for this purpose is defined in Commission Regulation ยง 49.2(a).

21. Attach as Exhibit H, a copy of the constitution; articles of incorporation or association with all amendments thereto; existing by-laws, rules, or instruments corresponding thereto, of the Applicant. The Applicant shall also provide a certificate of good standing dated within one week of the date of the application.

22. Where the Applicant is a foreign entity seeking registration or filing an amendment to an existing registration, attach as Exhibit I, an opinion of counsel that the swap data repository, as a matter of law, is able to provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and records of such swap data repository and that the swap data repository can submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.

23. Where the Applicant is a foreign entity seeking registration, attach as Exhibit I-1, a form that designates and authorizes an agent in the United States, other than a Commission official, to accept any notice or service of process, pleadings, or other documents in any action or proceedings brought against the swap data repository to enforce the Act and the regulations thereunder.

24. Attach as Exhibit J, a current copy of the Applicant's rules, as defined in Commission Regulation ยง 40.1, consisting of all the rules necessary to carry out the duties as a swap data repository.

25. Attach as Exhibit K, a description of the Applicant's internal disciplinary and enforcement protocols, tools, and procedures. Include the procedures for dispute resolution.

26. Attach as Exhibit L, a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding(s), other than ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Applicant or any of its affiliates is a party or to which any of its or their property is the subject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the proceeding(s) are pending, the date(s) instituted, and the principal parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding(s) and the relief sought. Include similar information as to any such proceeding(s) known to be contemplated by the governmental agencies.

27. Attach as Exhibit M, a balance sheet, statement of income and expenses, statement of sources and application of revenues, and all notes or schedules thereto, as of the most recent fiscal year of the Applicant. If a balance sheet and statements certified by an independent public accountant are available, such balance sheet and statement shall be submitted as Exhibit M.

28. Attach as Exhibit N, a balance sheet and an income and expense statement for each affiliate of the swap data repository that also engages in swap data repository activities as of the end of the most recent fiscal year of each such affiliate.

29. Attach as Exhibit O, the following:

a. A complete list of all dues, fees, and other charges imposed, or to be imposed, by or on behalf of Applicant for its swap data repository services and identify the service or services provided for each such due, fee, or other charge.

b. Furnish a description of the basis and methods used in determining the level and structure of the dues, fees, and other charges listed in paragraph a of this item.

c. If the Applicant differentiates, or proposes to differentiate, among its customers, or classes of customers in the amount of any dues, fees, or other charges imposed for the same or similar services, so state and indicate the amount of each differential. In addition, identify and describe any differences in the cost of providing such services, and any other factors, that account for such differentiations.

30. Attach as Exhibit P, copies of all material contracts with any swap execution facility, designated contract market, clearing agency, central counterparty, or third party service provider. To the extent that form contracts are used by the Applicant, submit a sample of each type of form contract used. In addition, include a list of swap execution facilities, designated contract markets, clearing agencies, central counterparties, and third party service providers with whom the Applicant has entered into material contracts. Where swap data repository functions are performed by a third-party, attach any agreements between or among the Applicant and such third party, and identify the services that will be provided.

31. Attach as Exhibit Q, any technical manuals, other guides or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market.

32. Attach as Exhibit R, a description of system test procedures, test conducted or test results that will enable the Applicant to comply, or demonstrate the Applicant's ability to comply, with the core principles for swap data repositories.
