
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 49 - SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES
#### Appendix A to Part 49 - Form SDR
##### e.g.,

(1) Quantify in appropriate units of measure the limits on the swap data repository's capacity to receive (or collect), process, store, or display (or disseminate for display or other use) the data elements included within each function (number of inquiries from remote terminals);

(2) identify the factors (mechanical, electronic, or other) that account for the current limitations reported in answer to (1) on the swap data repository's capacity to receive (or collect), process, store, or display (or disseminate for display or other use) the data elements included within each function.

b. If the Applicant is able to employ, or presently employs, the central processing units of its system(s) for any use other than for performing the functions of a swap data repository, state the priorities of assignment of capacity between such functions and such other uses, and state the methods used or able to be used to divert capacity between such functions and such other uses.

40. Attach as Exhibit Z, the following:

a. As to each swap data repository service that the Applicant provides, state the number of persons who presently utilize, or who have notified the Applicant of their intention to utilize, the services of the swap data repository.

b. For each instance during the past year in which any person has been prohibited or limited in respect of access to services offered by the Applicant as a swap data repository, indicate the name of each such person and the reason for the prohibition or limitation.

c. Define the data elements for purposes of the swap data repository's real-time public reporting obligation. Appendix A to Part 43 of the Commission's Regulations (Data Elements and Form for Real-Time Reporting for Particular Markets and Contracts) sets forth the specific data elements for real-time public reporting.

41. Attach as Exhibit AA, copies of any agreements governing the terms by which information may be shared by the swap data repository, including with market participants. To the extent that form contracts are used by the Applicant, submit a sample of each type of form contract used.

42. Attach as Exhibit BB, a description of any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria that limit, are interpreted to limit, or have the effect of limiting access to or use of any swap data repository services furnished by the Applicant and state the reasons for imposing such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria, including whether such specifications, qualifications, or other criteria are imposed.

43. Attach as Exhibit CC, any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria required of participants who utilize the services of the Applicant for collection, processing, preparing for distribution, or public dissemination by the Applicant.

44. Attach as Exhibit DD, any specifications, qualifications, or other criteria required of any person, including, but not limited to, regulators, market participants, market infrastructures, venues from which data could be submitted to the Applicant, and third party service providers who request access to data maintained by the Applicant.

45. Attach as Exhibit EE, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to review any prohibition or limitation of any person with respect to access to services offered or data maintained by the Applicant and to grant such person access to such services or data if such person has been discriminated against unfairly.

46. Attach as Exhibit FF, a narrative and supporting documents that may be provided under other Exhibits herein, that describes the manner in which the Applicant is able to comply with each core principle and other requirements pursuant to Commission Regulation ยง 49.19.

47. Attach as Exhibit GG, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant to protect the privacy of any and all SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information that the swap data repository receives from reporting entities.

48. Attach as Exhibit HH, a description of safeguards, policies, and procedures implemented by the Applicant to prevent the misappropriation or misuse of (a) any confidential information received by the Applicant, including, but not limited to, SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information, about a market participant or any of its customers; and/or (b) intellectual property by Applicant or any person associated with the Applicant for their personal benefit or the benefit of others.

49. Attach as Exhibit II, policies and procedures implemented by the Applicant regarding its use of the SDR data, section 8 material, and SDR information that it receives from a market participant, any registered entity, or any person for non-commercial and/or commercial purposes.

50. Attach as Exhibit JJ, procedures and a description of facilities of the Applicant for effectively resolving disputes over the accuracy of the SDR data and positions that are maintained by the swap data repository.

51. Attach as Exhibit KK, policies and procedures relating to the Applicant's calculation of positions.

52. Attach as Exhibit LL, policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent any provision in a valid swap from being invalidated or modified through the procedures or operations of the Applicant.

53. Attach as Exhibit MM, Applicant's policies and procedures that ensure that the SDR data that are maintained by the Applicant continues to be maintained after the Applicant withdraws from registration as a swap data repository, which shall include procedures for transferring the SDR data to the Commission or its designee (including another swap data repository).
