
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 140 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart B - Functions
##### ยง 140.24 Control and accountability procedures.
###### General safeguards.

(a)(1) Classified material must not be left in unoccupied rooms or be left inadequately protected in an occupied office, or one occupied by other than security cleared employees. Under no circumstances shall classified material be placed in desk drawers or anywhere other than in approved storage containers.

(2) Employees using classified material shall take every precaution to prevent deliberate or casual inspection of it by unauthorized persons. Classified material shall be kept under constant surveillance and face down or covered when not in use.

(3) All copies of classified documents and any informal material such as memoranda, rough drafts, shorthand notes, carbon copies, carbon paper, typewriter ribbons, recording discs, spools and tapes shall be given the same classification and secure handling as the classified information they contain.

(4) Commission personnel authorized to use classified materials will obtain them from the Executive Director or his delegee on the day required and return them to the Executive Director or his delegee before the close of business on the same day.

(5) Classified information shall not be revealed in telephone or telecommunications conversations.

(6) Any person who has knowledge of the loss or possible compromise of classified information shall immediately report the circumstances either to the Security Officer or to the Executive Director or his delegee. The Executive Director or his delegee shall initiate a preliminary inquiry to determine the circumstances surrounding an actual or possible compromise, and to determine what corrective measures and administrative, disciplinary, or legal action is necessary.
