
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 140 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart B - Functions
##### ยง 140.24 Control and accountability procedures.
###### Reproduction controls.

(b)(1) The number of copies of documents containing classified information must be kept to the minimum required by operational necessity to decrease the risk of compromise and reduce storage costs.

(2) Top Secret documents, except for the controlled initial distribution of information processed or received electrically, shall not be reproduced without the consent of the originator.

(3) Unless restricted by the originating agency, Secret and Confidential documents may be reproduced to the extent required by operational needs.

(4) Reproduced copies of classified documents shall be subject to the same accountability and controls as the original documents.

(5) Classified reproduction shall be controlled by persons with the proper level of security clearance.

(6) Records shall be maintained to show the number and distribution of reproduced copies to all Top Secret documents, of all classified documents covered by special access programs distributed outside the originating agency, and of all Secret and Confidential documents which are marked with special dissemination and reproduction limitations.

(7) Unauthorized reproduction of classified material will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
