
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 140 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart B - Functions
##### § 140.93 Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under his direction as he may designate from time to time:

(1) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.12(a) of this chapter.

(2) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.22(g)(3) of this chapter.

(3) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.20(a) of this chapter.

(4) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.5(c)(2)(ii) of this chapter.

(5) All functions reserved to the Commission in § 4.6(b) of this chapter.

(6) All functions reserved to the Commission in §§ 23.150 through 23.161 of this chapter.

(b) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight may submit any matter which has been delegated to him under paragraph (a) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.

(c) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight under paragraph (a) of this section.
