
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 142 - INDEMNIFICATION OF CFTC EMPLOYEES
#### ยง 142.2 Policy.

(a) The Commission may indemnify its employees by the payment of available funds, in whole, or in part, for any verdict, judgment or other monetary award which is rendered against any employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment or award was taken within the scope of his or her employment with the Commission and that such indemnification is in the interest of the United States, as determined by the Commission.

(b) The Commission may settle or compromise a personal damage claim against its employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damage claim was taken within the scope of employment and that such settlement is in the interest of the United States as determined by the Commission in its discretion.

(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Commission, the Commission will not entertain a request either to agree to indemnify or to settle a personal damage claim before entry of an adverse verdict, judgment or monetary award.

(d) When an employee of the Commission becomes aware that an action may be or has been filed against the employee in his or her individual capacity as a result of conduct taken within the scope of his or her employment, the employee should immediately notify the Commission's Office of General Counsel that such an action is pending or threatened.

(e) The employee may thereafter request either (1) indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment or award entered against the employee or (2) payment to satisfy the requirements of a settlement proposal. The employee shall submit a written request, with documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, award or settlement proposal, as appropriate, to the head of his or her division or office, who thereupon shall submit to the General Counsel, in a timely manner, a recommended disposition of the request. The General Counsel shall also seek the views of the Department of Justice. The General Counsel shall forward the request, the division or office's recommendation and the General Counsel's recommendation to the Commission for decision.

(f) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a Commodity Futures Trading Commission employee or to settle a personal damage claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
