
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.7 Requests for Commission records and copies thereof.
##### Initial determination, denials.

(h)(1) With respect to any request for nonpublic records as defined in ยง 145.0(c), the Compliance Staff of the Commission will forward the request to the Commission divisions or offices likely to maintain records that are responsive to the request. If a responsive record is located, the Compliance Staff will, in consultation with the Commission office in which the record was located, determine whether to comply with such request. The Compliance Staff may, in their discretion, determine whether to comply with any portion of a request for nonpublic records before considering the remainder of the request. The Compliance Staff will inform the requester of the availability of the Commission's FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.

(2) Where it is determined to deny, in whole or in part, a request for nonpublic records, the Compliance Staff will notify the requester of the denial, citing applicable exemptions of the Freedom of Information Act or other provisions of law that require or allow the records to be withheld. The Compliance Staff's response to the FOIA request should describe in general terms what categories of documents are being withheld under which applicable FOIA exemption or exemptions. The Compliance Staff's response will include a statement notifying the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Commission's FOIA Public Liaison and the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of Government Information Services. The Compliance Staff, in denying an initial request for records, is not required to provide the requester with an inventory of those documents determined to be exempt from disclosure.

(3) The Compliance Staff will issue an initial determination with respect to a FOIA request within twenty business days after receipt by the Office of General Counsel. In unusual circumstances, as defined in this paragraph, the prescribed time limit may be extended by written notice to the person making a request for a record or a copy. The notice shall set forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. Where the extension exceeds ten business days, the Compliance Staff will provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. The Compliance Staff or the FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist the requester in unusual circumstances. The Compliance Staff will notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services. As used in this paragraph, "unusual circumstances" means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of a particular request:

(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;

(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request;

(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components in the Commission having substantial subject matter interest therein;

(iv) The need to coordinate a response with several Commission offices;

(v) The need to obtain records currently being used by members of the Commission, the Commission staff, or the public;

(vi) The need to respond to a large number of previously-filed FOIA requests.
