
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.7 Requests for Commission records and copies thereof.
##### i.e.,

(3) The applicant must attach to the application for review a copy of all correspondence relevant to the request,the initial request, any correspondence amending or modifying the request, and all correspondence from the staff responding to the request.

(4) The application for review shall state such facts and cite such legal or other authorities as the applicant may consider appropriate. The application may, in addition, include a description of the general benefit to the public from disclosure of that information.

(5) If the appeal involves information that is subject to a petition for confidential treatment filed under ยง 145.9, the submitter of the information shall have an opportunity to respond in writing to the appeal within 10 business days of the date of filing the appeal. Any response shall be sent to the Commission's Office of General Counsel. Copies shall be sent to the person requesting the information.

(6) The General Counsel, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to consider all appeals under this section from initial determinations of the Compliance Staff of the Commission. The General Counsel, or his or her designee, may:

(i) Determine either to affirm or to reverse the initial determination in whole or in part;

(ii) Determine to disclose a record, even if exempt, if good cause for doing so either is shown by the application or otherwise appears;

(iii) Remand the matter to the Compliance Staff-

(A) To correct a deficiency in the initial processing of the request, or

(B) When an investigation as to which the staff originally claimed exemption from mandatory disclosure on the basis of 5 U.S.C. 555(b)(7)(A) or 7 U.S.C. 12(a) is subsequently closed; or

(iv) Refer the matter to the Commission for a decision.

(7) If the initial denial of the request for nonpublic records is reversed, the Office of General Counsel shall, in writing, advise the requester that the records will be available on or after a specified date. If, on appeal, the denial of access to a record is affirmed in whole or in part, the person who requested the information shall be notified in writing of:

(i) The reasons for the denial,

(ii) The mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation, and

(iii) The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4) providing for judicial review of a determination to withhold records.
