
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.9 Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
##### Written request for confidential treatment.

(d)(1) Any submitter may request in writing that the Commission afford confidential treatment under the Freedom of Information Act to any information that he or she submits to the Commission. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, no oral requests for confidential treatment will be accepted by the Commission. The submitter shall specify the grounds on which confidential treatment is being requested but need not provide a detailed written justification of the request unless required to do so under paragraph (e) of this section. Confidential treatment may be requested only on the grounds that disclosure:

(i) Is specifically exempted by a statute that either requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such manner as to leave no discretion on the issue or establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld.

(ii) Would reveal the submitter's trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information.

(iii) Would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of the submitter's personal privacy.

(iv) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes whose disclosure would deprive the submitter of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication.

(v) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes whose disclosure would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the submitter.
