
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.9 Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
##### provided,

(vi) Would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes when disclosure would interfere with enforcement proceedings or disclose investigative techniques and procedures,that the claim may be made only by a designated contract market, derivatives clearing organization, swap execution facility, swap data repository or registered futures association with regard to its own investigatory records.

(2) The original of any written request for confidential treatment must be sent to the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance. A copy of any request for confidential treatment shall be sent to the Commission division or office receiving the original of any material for which confidential treatment is being sought.

(3) A request for confidential treatment shall be clearly marked "FOIA Confidential Treatment Request" and shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of the submitter. The submitter is responsible for informing the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance of any changes in his or her name, address, and telephone number.

(4) A request for confidential treatment should accompany the material for which confidential treatment is being sought. If a request for confidential treatment is filed after the filing of such material, the submitter shall have the burden of showing that it was not possible to request confidential treatment for that material at the time the material was filed. A request for confidential treatment of a future submission will not be processed. All records which contain information for which a request for confidential treatment is made or the appropriate segregable portions thereof should be marked by the person submitting the records with a prominent stamp, typed legend, or other suitable form of notice on each page or segregable portion of each page stating "Confidential Treatment Requested by [name]." If such marking is impractical under the circumstances, a cover sheet prominently marked "Confidential Treatment Requested by [name]" should be securely attached to each group of records submitted for which confidential treatment is requested. Each of the records transmitted in this matter should be individually marked with an identifying number and code so that they are separately identifiable. In some circumstances, such as when a person is testifying in the course of a Commission investigation or providing documents requested in the course of a Commission inspection, it may be impractical to submit a written request for confidential treatment at the time the information is first provided to the Commission. In no circumstances can the need to comply with the requirements of this section justify or excuse any delay in submitting information to the Commission. Rather, in such circumstances, the person testifying or otherwise submitting information should inform the Commission employee receiving the information, at the time the information is submitted or as soon thereafter as practicable, that the person is requesting confidential treatment for the information. The person shall then submit a written request for confidential treatment within 30 days of the submission of the information. If access is requested under the Freedom of Information Act with respect to material for which no timely request for confidential treatment has been made, it may be presumed that the submitter of the information has waived any interest in asserting that the material is confidential.

(5) A request for confidential treatment shall state the length of time for which confidential treatment is being sought.

(6) A request for confidential treatment (as distinguishing from the material that is the subject of the request) shall be considered a public document. When a submitter deems it necessary to include, in its request for confidential treatment, information for which it seeks confidential treatment, the submitter shall place that information in an appendix to the request.

(7) On 10 business days notice from the Assistant Secretary, a submitter shall submit a detailed written justification of a request for confidential treatment, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Upon request and for good cause shown, the Assistant Secretary may grant an extension of such time. The Assistant Secretary will notify the submitter that failure to provide timely a detailed written justification will be deemed a waiver of the submitter's opportunity to appeal an adverse determination.

(8)(i) Requests for confidential treatment for any reasonably segregable material that is not exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as implemented in ยง 145.5, shall be summarily rejected under ยง 145.9(d)(9). Requests for confidential treatment of public information contained in financial reports as specified in ยง 1.10 shall not be processed. A submitter has the burden of specifying clearly and precisely the material that is the subject of the confidential treatment request. A submitter may be able to meet this burden in various ways, including:

(A) Segregating material for which confidential treatment is being sought;

(B) Submitting two copies of the submission: a copy from which material for which confidential treatment is being sought has been obliterated, deleted, or clearly marked and an unmarked copy; and

(C) Clearly describing the material within a submission for which confidential treatment is being sought.

(ii) A submitter shall not employ a method of specifying the material for which confidential treatment is being sought if that method makes it unduly difficult for the Commission to read the full submission, including all portion claimed to be confidential, in its entirely.

(9) If a submitter fails to follow the procedures set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section, the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance or his or her designee may summarily reject the submitter's request for confidential treatment with leave to the submitter to refile a proper petition. Failure of the Assistant Secretary or his or her designee summarily to reject a confidential treatment request pursuant to this paragraph shall not be construed to indicate that the submitter has complied with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section.

(10) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, no determination with respect to any request for confidential treatment will be made until the Commission receives a Freedom of Information Act request for the material for which confidential treatment is being sought.
