
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.9 Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
##### Detailed written justification of request for confidential treatment.

(e)(1) If the Assistant Secretary or his or her designee determines that a FOIA request seeks material for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to ยง 145.9, the Assistant Secretary or his or her designee shall require the submitter to file a detailed written justification of the confidential request within ten business days (unless under ยง 145.9(d)(7) an extension of time has been granted) of that determination unless, pursuant to an earlier FOIA request, a prior determination to release or withhold the material has been made, the submitter has already provided sufficient information to grant the request for confidential treatment; or the material is otherwise in the public domain. The detailed written justification shall be filed with the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance. It shall be clearly marked "Detailed Written Justification of FOIA Confidential Treatment Request" and shall contain the request number supplied by the Commission. The submitter shall also send a copy of the detailed written justification to the FOIA requester at the address specified by the Commission.

(2) The period for filing a detailed written justification may be extended upon request and for good cause shown.

(3) The detailed written justification of the confidential treatment request shall contain:

(i) The reasons, referring to the specific exemptive provisions of the Freedom of Information Act listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, why the information that is the subject of the FOIA request should be withheld from access under the Freedom of Information Act;

(ii) The applicability of any specific statutory or regulatory provisions that govern or may govern the treatment of the information;

(iii) The existence and applicability of prior determinations by the Commission, other federal agencies, or courts concerning the specific exemptive provisions of the Freedom of Information Act pursuant to which confidential treatment is being requested. Submitters shall satisfy any evidentiary burdens imposed upon them by applicable Freedom of Information Act case law.

(iv) Such additional facts and authorities as the submitter may consider appropriate.

(4) The detailed written justification of a confidential treatment request shall be accompanied by affidavits to the extent necessary to establish the facts necessary to satisfy the submitter's evidentiary burden.

(5) The detailed written justification of a confidential treatment request (as distinguished from the material that is the subject of the request) shall be considered a public document. However, a submitter will be permitted to submit to the Commission supplementary confidential affidavits with his or her detailed written justification if that is the only way in which he or she can convincingly demonstrate that the material that is the subject of the confidential treatment request should not be disclosed to the FOIA requester.
