
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.9 Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
##### Initial determination with respect to petition for confidential treatment.,See,See

(f)(1) The Assistant Secretary for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance or his or her designee, in consultation with the Office in which the record was located, shall issue an initial determination with respect to a confidential treatment request for material that is responsive to the FOIA request. This determination shall be issued at the same time as the initial determination with respect to the FOIA request.ยง 145.7(g). To the extent that the initial determination grants a confidential treatment request in full or in part, it should specify the FOIA exemptions upon which this determination is based and briefly describe the material to which each exemption applies.ยง 145.7(g)(2). To the extent that the initial determination denies confidential treatment to any material for which confidential treatment was requested, it should briefly describe the material for which confidential treatment is denied.

(2) If the Assistant Secretary or his or her designee determines that a confidential treatment request shall be denied in full or in part, the submitter shall be informed of his or her right to appeal to the Commission's General Counsel in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (g) of this section. The material for which confidential treatment was denied shall be released to the FOIA requester if the submitter does not file an appeal within 10 business days of the date on which his or her request was denied.

(3) If the Assistant Secretary or his or her designee determines that a confidential treatment request shall be granted in full or in part, the FOIA requester shall be informed of his or her right to appeal to the Commission's General Counsel in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 145.7(h).
