
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### ยง 145.9 Petition for confidential treatment of information submitted to the Commission.
##### Appeal from initial determination that confidential treatment is not warranted.

(g)(1) An appeal from an initial determination to deny a confidential treatment request in full or in part shall be filed with the General Counsel of the Commission. No disclosure of the material that is the subject of the appeal shall be made until the appeal is resolved. If both a submitter and a FOIA requester appeal to the General Counsel from a partial grant and partial denial of a confidential treatment request, those appeals shall be consolidated.

(2) Any appeal of a denial of a request for confidential treatment shall be in writing, and shall be clearly marked "FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeal." The appeal shall include a copy of the initial determination and shall clearly indicate the portions of the initial determination from which an appeal is being taken.

(3) The appeal shall be sent to the Commission's Office of General Counsel. A copy of the appeal shall be sent to the FOIA requester. The General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the authority to consider all appeals from initial determinations of the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance. The General Counsel may, in his sole and unfettered discretion, refer such appeals and questions concerning stays under paragraph (g)(10) of this section to the Commission for decision.

(4) In the appeal, the submitter may supply additional substantiation for his or her request for confidential treatment, including additional affidavits and additional legal argument. Such submissions shall be governed by paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(5) The FOIA requester shall have an opportunity to respond in writing to the appeal within 10 business days of the date of filing of the FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeal. The FOIA requester need not respond, however. Any response shall be sent to the Commission's Office of General Counsel. A copy shall be sent to the submitter.

(6) All FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeals and all responses thereto shall be considered public documents.

(7) The General Counsel will make a determination with respect to any appeal within twenty business days after receipt by the Office of General Counsel of such appeal or within such extended period as may be permitted in accordance with the standards set forth in ยง 145.7(g)(3). Although other procedures may be employed, to the extent possible the General Counsel will decide the appeal on the basis of the affidavits and other documentary evidence submitted by the submitter and the FOIA requests.

(8) The General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the authority to remand any matter to the Assistant Secretary of the Commission for FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts Compliance to correct deficiencies in the initial processing of the confidential treatment request.

(9) If the General Counsel or his or her designee denies a confidential treatment appeal in full or in part, the information for which confidential treatment is denied shall be disclosed to the FOIA requester 10 business days later, subject to any stay entered pursuant to paragraph (g)(10) of this section.

(10) The General Counsel or his or here designee shall have the authority to enter and vacate stays as set forth below. If, within 10 business days of the date of issuance of a determination by the General Counsel or his or her designee to disclose information for which a submitter sought confidential treatment, the submitter commences an action in federal court concerning that determination, the General Counsel will stay the public disclosure of the information pending final judicial resolution of the matter. The General Counsel or his or her designee may vacate a stay entered under this section, either on his or her own motion or at the request of the FOIA requester. If such a stay is vacated, the information will be released to the requester 10 business days after the submitter is notified of this action, unless a court orders otherwise.
