
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 145 - COMMISSION RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Appendix B to Part 145 - Schedule of Fees
##### Charges for requests.

(a)The following charges may be made where applicable for responding to requests for records.

(1) $4.75 for each quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in searching for or reviewing records.

(2) When a search or review cannot be performed by clerical personnel, $10.25 for each quarter hour spent by professional personnel in searching or reviewing records.

(3) When searches require the expertise of a computer specialist, staff time for programming and performing searches will be charged at $10.25 per quarter hour. For searches of records stored on personal computers used as workstations by Commission staff and shared access network servers, the computer processing time is included in the search time for the staff member using the workstation as set forth in paragraph (a) of this appendix.

(4) Document duplication, including computer printouts, will be charged at $0.15 per page.

(5) For copies of materials other than paper records, the requester will be charged the actual cost of materials and reproduction, including the time of clerical personnel at a rate of $4.75 per quarter hour.

(6) When a request has been made and granted to examine Commission records at an office of the Commission other than the office in which the records are routinely maintained, the requester:

(i) Will reimburse the Commission for the actual cost of transporting the records; and

(ii) Will be charged at a rate of $4.75 for each quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in preparing the records for transit.

(7) For certifying that requested records are true copies, the charge will be $3.00 per certification.

(8) Upon request, records will be mailed by means of overnight or express mail at the fee of $10.00 per package mailed.
