
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 146 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS
#### § 146.5 Disclosure of requested information to individuals; fee for copies of records.

(a) Any individual who has requested access to his record or to any information pertaining to him in the manner prescribed in § 146.3, and has identified himself as prescribed in § 146.4, shall be permitted to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him, subject to fees for copying services set forth in appendix A to this part. Upon his request persons of his own choosing may accompany him, but the individual shall first furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompany persons' presence.

(b) Access will generally be granted in the office of the Commission where the records are maintained during normal business hours, but for good cause shown the Commission may grant access at another office of the Commission or at different times for the convenience of the individual making the request.

(c) Where a document containing information about an individual also contains information not pertaining to him, the portion not pertaining to the individual shall not be disclosed to him except to the extent the information is available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act. If the records sought cannot be provided for review and copying in a meaningful form, the Commission shall provide to the individual a report of the information concerning the individual contained in the record or records which shall be complete and accurate in all material aspects.

(d) Where the disclosure involves medical records, the records may be provided only to a physician designated in writing by the individual.

(e) Requests for copies of documents may be directed to the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of the Secretariat, or to the member of the Commission's staff through whom arrangements for access were made.

(f) Fees for copies of records shall be charged as set forth in the schedule of fees contained in appendix A to this part. Copies of the schedule may be obtained upon request from the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581. Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Advance payment of all or part of the fee may be required at the discretion of the Commission, but generally this will not be required for requests where the anticipated fee is less than $25.

(g) Nothing in this section or in § 146.3 shall:

(1) Require the disclosure of investigative records exempted under § 146.12 of these rules;

(2) Allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action, administrative proceeding or a criminal proceeding;

(3) Require the furnishing of information or records which cannot be retrieved by the name or other identifier of the individual making the request.
