
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 146 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS
#### Appendix A to Part 146 - Fees for Copies of Records Requested Under the Privacy Act of 1974

a. The following schedule of fees shall apply to copies of records requested pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a and ยง 146.5(f).

(1) For requests for copies of documents, the charge will be 15 cents per page.

(2) For materials other than paper records, including computer and cassette tapes, the direct cost of the materials and, if required, time spent by clerical personnel copying the materials shall be charged. Persons making the request shall be notified of the amount of the charge and shall give specific approval before the request is processed.

(3) For certifying that requested records are true copies, the fee will be $3.00 per certification in addition to other fees, if any.

(4) Upon request, records will be mailed by means of an overnight/express service at the fee of $10.00 per unit mailed.

(5) The Commission may, upon application by the individual, furnish any records without charge or at a reduced rate, if it determines that such wavier or reduction of fee is in the public interest.

b. Requests for copies of documents shall be addressed to FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581.

c. Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

d. Advance payment of all or part of the fee may be required at the discretion of the Commission. Generally, advance payment will not be required where the anticipated fee is less than $25.
