
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
#### Customers' Money, Securities, and Property
##### ยง 1.20 Futures customer funds to be segregated and separately accounted for.
###### Written acknowledgment from depositories.,provided, however,

(4)(i) A derivatives clearing organization must obtain a written acknowledgment from each depository prior to or contemporaneously with the opening of a futures customer funds account;that a derivatives clearing organization is not required to obtain a written acknowledgment from a Federal Reserve Bank with which it has opened a futures customer funds account.

(ii) The written acknowledgment must be in the form as set out in appendix B to this part.

(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall deposit futures customer funds only with a depository that agrees to provide the Commission with a copy of the executed written acknowledgment no later than three business days after the opening of the account or the execution of a new written acknowledgment for an existing account, as applicable. The Commission must receive the written acknowledgment from the depository via electronic means, in a format and manner determined by the Commission. The written acknowledgment must contain the derivatives clearing organization's authorization to the depository to provide the written acknowledgment to the Commission without further notice to or consent from the derivatives clearing organization.

(iv) A derivatives clearing organization shall deposit futures customer funds only with a depository that agrees to reply promptly and directly to any request from the director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the director of the Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight, or any successor divisions, or such directors' designees, for confirmation of account balances or provision of any other information regarding or related to an account. The written acknowledgment must contain the derivatives clearing organization's authorization to the depository to reply promptly and directly as required by this paragraph without further notice to or consent from the derivatives clearing organization.

(v) A derivatives clearing organization shall promptly file a copy of the written acknowledgment with the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission no later than three business days after the opening of the account or the execution of a new written acknowledgment for an existing account, as applicable.

(vi) A derivatives clearing organization shall obtain a new written acknowledgment within 120 days of any changes in the following:

(A) The name or business address of the derivatives clearing organization;

(B) The name or business address of the depository receiving futures customer funds; or

(C) The account number(s) under which futures customer funds are held.

(vii) A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain each written acknowledgment readily accessible in its files in accordance with ยง 1.31, for as long as the account remains open, and thereafter for the period provided in ยง 1.31.
