
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 160 - PRIVACY OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL INFORMATION UNDER TITLE V OF THE GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT
#### ยง 160.3 Definitions.
##### Examples.

(2)(i) An individual is your consumer if he or she provides nonpublic personal information to you in connection with obtaining or seeking to obtain brokerage or advisory services, whether or not you provide services to the individual or establish a continuing relationship with the individual.

(ii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she provides you only with his or her name, address and general areas of investment interest in connection with a request for a brochure or other information about financial products or services.

(iii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she has an account with another futures commission merchant (originating futures commission merchant) for which you provide clearing services for an account in the name of the originating futures commission merchant.

(iv) An individual who is a consumer of another financial institution is not your consumer solely because you act as agent for, or provide processing or other services to, that financial institution.

(v) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she has designated you as trustee for a trust.

(vi) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a beneficiary of a trust for which you are a trustee.

(vii) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a participant or a beneficiary of an employee benefit plan that you sponsor or for which you act as a trustee or fiduciary.
