
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 170 - REGISTERED FUTURES ASSOCIATIONS
#### Subpart B - Registration Statement of Futures Associations to be Submitted to the Commission
##### ยง 170.11 Form of registration statement; review of registration statement.

(a) Any association seeking registration by the Commission as a futures association must file with the Commission a letter requesting that the association be registered by the Commission as a futures association and accompany the letter with the following: (1) The constitution, charter or articles of incorporation of the association, (2) the bylaws of the association, (3) any other rules, resolutions or regulations of the association corresponding to the foregoing, (4) a detailed description of the association's organization, membership and rules of procedure and (5) a detailed statement of the association's capability to comply with the provisions of section 17 of the Act and this part. This letter and the accompanying information shall be considered as the registration statement of the association. This letter and the accompanying information shall be filed with the Secretariat of the Commission at Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581.

(b) At any time after an applicant's registration statement has been filed, the applicant association shall submit to the Commission any supporting or additional information concerning the application of the association as the Commission may request.

(c) If it appears to the Commission, after reviewing any registration statement filed by an applicant association, that the applicant has not satisfied the requirements for registration set forth in section 17 of the Act or of this part, the Commission may, in its discretion, notify the applicant in writing to that effect. Such notice shall specify those requirements of section 17 or of this part which do not appear to have been satisfied and shall afford the applicant a period of at least 60 days in which to respond to the Commission's notice by demonstrating or achieving compliance with the requirements specified by the Commission or otherwise. An applicant may withdraw its registration statement from Commission consideration at any time within such 60 day period.
