
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 190 - BANKRUPTCY RULES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 190.00 Statutory authority, organization, core concepts, scope, and construction.
###### Public customers and non-public customers; Commission segregation requirements; member property,Public customers and non-public customers.

(3)-(i)This part prescribes separate treatment of "public customers" and "non-public customers" (as these terms are defined in ยง 190.01) within each account class in the event of a proceeding under this part in which the debtor is a futures commission merchant. Public customers of a debtor futures commission merchant are entitled to a priority in the distribution of cash, securities, or other customer property over non-public customers, and both have priority over all other claimants (except for claims relating to the administration of customer property) pursuant to section 766(h) of the Bankruptcy Code.

(A) The cash, securities, or other property held on behalf of the public customers of a futures commission merchant in the futures, foreign futures, or cleared swaps account classes are subject to special segregation requirements imposed under parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter for each account class. Although such segregation requirements generally are not applicable to cash, securities, or other property received from or reflected in the futures, foreign futures, or cleared swaps accounts of non-public customers of a futures commission merchant, such transactions and property are customer property within the scope of this part.

(B) While parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter do not impose special segregation requirements with respect to treatment of cash, securities, or other property of public customers carried in a delivery account, such property does constitute customer property. Thus, the distinction between public and non-public customers is, given the priority for public customers in section 766(h) of the Bankruptcy Code, relevant for the purpose of making distributions to delivery account class customers pursuant to this part.

(C) Where a provision in this part affords the trustee discretion, that discretion should be exercised in a manner that the trustee determines will best achieve the overarching goal of protecting public customers as a class by enhancing recoveries for, and mitigating disruptions to, public customers as a class. In seeking to achieve that overarching goal, the trustee has discretion to balance those two sub-goals when they are in tension. Where the trustee is directed to exercise "reasonable efforts" to meet a standard, those efforts should only be less than "best efforts" to the extent that the trustee determines that such an approach would support the foregoing goals.
