
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 190 - BANKRUPTCY RULES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 190.00 Statutory authority, organization, core concepts, scope, and construction.
###### Commodity contract exclusions.

(3)For purposes of this part, the following are excluded from the term "commodity contract":

(i) Options on commodities (including swaps subject to regulation under part 32 of this chapter) that are not centrally cleared by a clearing organization or foreign clearing organization.

(ii) Transactions, contracts or agreements that are classified as "forward contracts" under the Act pursuant to the exclusion from the term "future delivery" set out in section 1a(27) of the Act or the exclusion from the definition of a "swap" under section 1a(47)(B)(ii) of the Act, in each case that are not centrally cleared by a clearing organization or foreign clearing organization.

(iii) Security futures products as defined in section 1a(45) of the Act when such products are held in a securities account.

(iv) Any off-exchange retail foreign currency transaction, contract or agreement described in sections 2(c)(2)(B) or (C) of the Act.

(v) Any security-based swap or other security (as defined in section 3 of the Exchange Act), but a security futures product or a mixed swap (as defined in 1a(47)(D) of the Act) that is, in either case, carried in an account for which there is a corresponding account class under this part is not so excluded.

(vi) Any off-exchange retail commodity transaction, contract or agreement described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act, unless such transaction, contract or agreement is traded on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or foreign board of trade as, or as if, such transaction, contract, or agreement is a futures contract.
