
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### ยง 200.16a Inspector General.

(a) Under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, (5 U.S.C. app.) the Inspector General performs independent and objective investigations and audits relating to the Commission's programs and operations. An investigation seeks to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in the Commission's programs and operations, such as violations of federal statutes or regulations by contractors and Commission employees or the Standards Of Ethical Conduct For Employees of the Executive Branch. An audit seeks to determine whether:

(1) Program goals and results identified in enabling legislation are achieved.

(2) Resources are efficiently and economically used and managed.

(3) Financial operations are properly conducted.

(4) Financial reports are fairly presented.

(5) Applicable laws and regulations are complied with.

(b) In cooperation with Commission management, the Inspector General generally promotes economy, efficiency, and the effectiveness of waste or fraud detection and prevention in the Commission's programs and operations. The Inspector General also keeps the Congress and the Commission informed about problems and deficiencies in the Commission's programs and operations.

(c) The Inspector General reports to the Commission, but is independent of all other Commission management. In addition, the Inspector General independently prepares semi-annual reports to the Congress.

(d) With respect to misconduct of Commission employees and contractors, the Inspector General, after consultation with the Ethics Counsel, where appropriate, serves as the Commission's liaison with other federal audit and investigative agencies, such as the Department of Justice and the Executive Council on Integrity and Efficiency.

(e) Subpoenas issued in the course of an audit or investigation conducted by the Office of the Inspector General shall be effected by any method prescribed by ยง 201.232(a) and (c) of this chapter.
