
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-1 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Corporation Finance.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(a) With respect to registration of securities pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a), and Regulation C thereunder (§ 230.400of this chapter):

(1) To determine the effective dates of amendments to registration statements filed pursuant to section 8(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77h(c)).

(2) To consent to the withdrawal of registration statements or amendments or exhibits thereto, pursuant to Rule 477 (§ 230.477 of this chapter), and to issue orders declaring registration statements abandoned, pursuant to Rule 479 (§ 230.479 of this chapter).

(3) To grant applications for confidential treatment of contract provisions pursuant to § 230.406 of this chapter (Rule 406 under the Act); to issue orders scheduling hearings on such applications and to deny any such application as to which the applicant waives the applicant's right to a hearing, provided such applicant is advised of the applicant's right to have such denial reviewed by the Commission.

(4) To accelerate the use or publication of any summary prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) and Rule 431(g) (§ 230.431(g) of this chapter) thereunder.

(5) To take the following action pursuant to section 8(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77h(a)):

(i) To determine registration statements to be effective within shorter periods of time than 20 days after the filing thereof;

(ii) To consent to the filing of amendments prior to the effective dates of registration statements as part thereof, or to determine that amendments filed prior to the effective dates of registration statements have been filed pursuant to orders of the Commission, so as to be treated as parts of the registration statements for the purpose of section 8(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77h(a));

(iii) To determine to be effective applications for qualification of trust indentures filed with registration statements.

(6) Pursuant to instructions as to financial statements contained in forms adopted under the Act:

(i) To permit the omission of one or more financial statements therein required or the filing in substitution therefor of appropriate statements of comparable character, or

(ii) To require the filing of other financial statements in addition to, or in substitution for, the statements therein required.

(7) Acting pursuant to section 4(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(3)) or Rule 174 thereunder (§ 230.174 of this chapter), to reduce the 40-day period or the 90-day period with respect to transactions referred to in section 4(a)(3)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(3)(B)).

(8) To act on applications to dispense with any written consents of an expert pursuant to Rule 437 (§ 230.437 of this chapter).

(9) To determine whether to object, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(1) (§ 230.401(g)(1) of this chapter), and to notify issuers, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) (§ 230.401(g)(2) of this chapter), of an objection to the use of an automatic shelf registration as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or any post-effective amendment thereto that becomes effective immediately pursuant to Rule 462 (§ 230.462 of this chapter).

(10) To authorize the granting or denial of applications, upon a showing of good cause, that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the issuer be considered an ineligible issuer as defined in Rule 405.
