
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-1 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Corporation Finance.
####### et seq.

(e) With respect to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77aaa):

(1) To determine to be effective prior to the 20th day after filing thereof applications for qualification of indentures filed on Form T-3 (§ 269.3 of this chapter) pursuant to section 307 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77ggg), and Rule 7a-1 thereunder (§ 260.7a-1 of this chapter);

(2) To authorize the issuance of orders exempting certain securities from the Act under sections 304(c) and (d) thereof (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(c) and 77ddd(d)) and §§ 260.4c-1 and 260.4d-7 of this chapter.

(3) In cases in which opportunity for hearing is waived, to authorize the issuance of orders determining that a trusteeship under an indenture to be qualified and another indenture is not so likely to involve a material conflict of interest as to make it necessary to disqualify the trustee pursuant to section 310(b)(1)(ii) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(b)(1)(ii)) and Rule 10b-2 thereunder (§ 260.10b-2 of this chapter).

(4) To authorize the issuance of orders exempting any person, registration statement, indenture, security or transaction, or any class or classes of persons, registration statements, indentures, securities, or transactions from the requirements of one or more provisions of the Act pursuant to section 304(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(d)) and rule 4d-7 thereunder (17 CFR 260.4d-7 of this chapter).

(5) To determine to be effective prior to the 10th day after filing thereof an application for determining the eligibility under section 310(a) of the Act of a person designated as trustee for delayed offerings of debt securities under the Securities Act pursuant to section 305(b)(2) of the Act and rule 5b-1 [17 CFR 260.5b-1 of this chapter] thereunder.

(6) To authorize the issuance of an order permitting a foreign person to act as sole trustee under qualified indentures under section 310(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(a)) and § 260.10a-1 through § 260.10a-5 of this chapter.

(7) To issue notices with respect to applications for, and authorize the issuance of orders granting, a stay of a trustee's duty to resign pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act and Rule 10b-4 [17 CFR 260.10b-4 of this chapter] thereunder.
