
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-3 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Trading and Markets.
####### or and

(i) To designate certain broker-dealers as Reporting Brokers or Dealers;

(ii) To grant or deny an exemption, conditionally or unconditionally, to a broker or dealer pursuant to section 17(h) of the Act.

(53) To administer the provisions of § 240.24c-1 of this chapter; provided that access to nonpublic information as defined in such section shall be provided only with the concurrence of the head of the Commission division or office responsible for such information or the files containing such information.

(54) To administer the provisions of Section 24(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78x(d)).

(55) Pursuant to § 240.15c6-1 of this chapter, taking into account then existing market practices, to exempt contracts for the purchase or sale of any securities from the requirements of § 240.15c6-1(a) of this chapter.

(56) Pursuant to § 270.17Ad-16 of this chapter, to designate by order the appropriate qualified registered securities depository.

(57) Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2), and section 19(b)(3) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3), to institute proceedings to determine whether a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization should be disapproved and to provide to the self-regulatory organization notice of the grounds for disapproval under consideration. If the Commission has not taken action on a proposed rule change for which delegated authority has been withdrawn under paragraph (a)(12) of this section prior to the expiration of the applicable time period specified in section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2), then the Director shall institute pursuant to delegated authority proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. In addition, pursuant to section 19(b)(2)(B) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(B), to extend for a period not exceeding 240 days from the date of publication of notice of the filing of a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), the period during which the Commission must issue an order approving or disapproving the proposed rule change and to determine whether such longer period is appropriate and publish the reasons for such determination.

(58) Pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(C) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(C), to temporarily suspend a change in the rules of a self-regulatory organization.

(59) Pursuant to paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of Rule 19b-4 (§ 240.19b-4 of this chapter), to reduce the period before which a proposed rule change can become operative, and to reduce the period between an SRO submission of a filing and a pre-filing notification.

(60) [Reserved]

(61) To grant exemptions from Rule 604 (17 CFR 242.604), pursuant to Rule 604(c) (17 CFR 242.604(c)).

(62) Pursuant to section 36 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78mm) to review and, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, grant or deny exemptions from section 11(d)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78k(d)(1)).

(63) Pursuant to § 240.15a-1(b)(1) of this chapter, to issue orders identifying other permissible securities activities in which an OTC derivatives dealer may engage.

(64) Pursuant to § 240.15a-1(b)(2) of this chapter, to issue orders determining that a class of fungible instruments that are standardized as to their material economic terms is within the scope of eligible OTC derivative instrument.

(65) Pursuant to § 240.17a-12 of this chapter:

(i) To authorize the issuance of orders requiring over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives dealers to file, pursuant to § 240.17a-12(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter, monthly, or at least at such times as shall be specified, Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) and such other financial and operational information as shall be specified.

(ii) Pursuant to § 240.17a-12(n) of this chapter, to consider applications by OTC derivatives dealers for exemptions from, and extensions of time within which to file, reports required by § 240.17a-12 of this chapter, and to grant or deny such applications.

(66) To issue orders under Rules 15b3-1(c)(4), 15b6-1(e), 15Ba2-2(e)(4), 15Bc3-1(e), 15Ca2-1(c)(4), and 15Cc1-1(d) (17 CFR 240.15b3-1(c)(4), 240.15b6-1(e), 240.15Ba2-2(e)(4), 240.15Bc3-1(e), 240.15Ca2-1(c)(4), and 240.15Cc1-1(d)).

(67) [Reserved]

(68) Pursuant to Rule 605(b) (17 CFR 242.605(b)), to grant or deny exemptions, conditionally or unconditionally, from any provision or provisions of Rule 605 (17 CFR 242.605).

(69) Pursuant to Rule 606(c) (17 CFR 242.606(c)), to grant or deny exemptions, conditionally or unconditionally, from any provision or provisions of Rule 606 (17 CFR 242.606).
