
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### ยง 200.30-3 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Trading and Markets.
####### et seq.

(f) With respect to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa("SIPA"):

(1) Pursuant to Section 3(a)(2)(B) of SIPA, to:

(i) Extend for a period not exceeding 90 days from the date of the filing of the determination by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC") that a registered broker-dealer is not a SIPC member because it conducts its principal business outside the United States and its territories and possessions, the period during which the Commission must affirm, reverse or amend any determination by SIPC; and

(ii) Affirm such determination filed by SIPC.

(2) Pursuant to Section (3)(e)(1) of SIPA, to:

(i) Determine whether proposed bylaw changes filed by SIPC should not be disapproved or whether the proposed bylaw change is a matter of such significant public interest that public comment should be obtained, in which case the Division will notify SIPC of such finding and publish notice of the proposed bylaw change in accordance with Section 3(e)(2) of SIPA; and

(ii) Accelerate the effective date of proposed bylaw changes filed by SIPC.

(3) Pursuant to Section (3)(e)(2) of SIPA, to publish notice of proposed rule changes filed by SIPC.

(g) To consult on behalf of the Commission pursuant to section 18(t)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(t)(1)) with respect to matters described in ยง 200.19a.

(h) To consult on behalf of the Commission pursuant to sections 5318A(a)(4), 5318A(e)(2) and 5318(h)(2) of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5318A(a)(4), 5318A(e)(2) and 5318(h)(2)) with respect to matters described in ยง 200.19a.

(i) To consult on behalf of the Commission pursuant to the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), as amended (Pub. L. 107-56 (2001), 115 Stat. 272) with respect to matters described in ยง 200.19a.
