
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### ยง 200.30-4 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Enforcement.

Pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. No. 100-181, 101 Stat. 1254, 1255 (15 U.S.C. 78d-1, 78d-2), the Securities and Exchange Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the Director of the Division of Enforcement to be performed by him or under his direction by such other person or persons as may be designated from time to time by the Chairman of the Commission.

(a)(1) To designate officers empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records in the course of investigations instituted by the Commission pursuant to section 19(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77s(c)), section 21(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u(b)), section 42(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-41(b)) and section 209(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-9(b)).

(2) In nonpublic investigative proceedings, to grant requests of persons to procure copies of the transcript of their testimony under ยง 203.6 of this chapter.

(3) To terminate and close all investigations authorized by the Commission pursuant to section 20 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77t), section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u), section 42 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-41) and section 209 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-9).

(4) To terminate the authority to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records in the course of investigations instituted by the Commission pursuant to section 19(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77s(c)), section 21(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u(b)), section 42(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-41(b)) and section 209(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-9(b)).

(5) To grant or deny applications made pursuant to Rule 193 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, ยง 201.193 of this chapter, provided, that, in the event of a denial, the applicant shall be notified that such a denial may be appealed to the Commisson for review.
