
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-5 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Investment Management.
####### With respect to the Securities Act of 1933.

(b-1)(1) To issue notices with respect to applications for orders under section 3(a)(2) exempting from section 5 interests or participations issued in connection with stock bonus, pension, profit-sharing, or annuity plans covering employees some or all of whom are employees within the meaning of section 401(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 where, upon examination, the matter does not appear to the Director to present issues not previously settled by the Commission or to raise questions of fact or policy indicating that the public interest or the interest of investors requires that a hearing be held.

(2) To authorize the issuance of orders where a notice has been issued and no request for a hearing has been received from any interested person within the period specified in the notice and the matter involved presents no issue that the Director believes has not been settled previously by the Commission and it does not appear to the Director to be necessary in the public interest or the interest of investors that a hearing be held.

(b-2) With respect to post-effective amendments filed pursuant to § 230.485(a) or § 230.486(a) of this chapter:

(1) To suspend the operation of paragraph (a) of such sections and to issue written notices to registrants of such suspensions;

(2) To determine such amendments to be effective within shorter periods of time than the sixtieth day after the filing thereof.

(b-3) With respect to post-effective amendments filed pursuant to § 230.485(b) or § 230.486(b) of this chapter:

(1) To approve additional purposes for post-effective amendments which shall be eligible for immediate effectiveness pursuant to paragraph (b) of such sections.

(2) To suspend the operation of paragraph (b) of such sections and to issue written notices to registrants of such suspensions.

(b-4) With respect to registration statements filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of Rule 487 under the Act (17 CFR 230.487(a)):

(1) To suspend the operation of said paragraph (a) and to issue written notices to registrants of such suspensions.

(b-5) With respect to registration statements filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of rule 488 under the Act (17 CFR 230.488(a)):

(1) To suspend the operation of said paragraphs and to issue written notices to registrants of such suspensions;

(2) To determine such amendments to be effective within shorter periods of time than the thirtieth day after the filing thereof.
