
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-5 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Investment Management.
####### et seq.

(c) With respect to the Securities Act of 1933 and Regulation E thereunder (§ 230.601of this chapter):

(1) To authorize the offering of securities:

(i) Less than ten days subsequent to the filing with the Commission of a notification on Form 1-E (§ 239.200 of this chapter) pursuant to Rule 604(a) (§ 230.604(a) of this chapter);

(ii) Less than ten days subsequent to the filing of an amendment to a notification on Form 1-E (§ 239.200 of this chapter) pursuant to Rule 604(c) (§ 230.604(c) of this chapter).

(2) To authorize the use of a revised or amended offering circular less than ten days subsequent to the filing thereof pursuant to Rule 605(e) (§ 230.605(e) of this chapter).

(3) To authorize the use of communications specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Rule 607 (§ 230.607 of this chapter), less than five days subsequent to the filing thereof.

(4) To permit the withdrawal of any notification, or any exhibit or other documents filed as a part thereof, pursuant to Rule 604(d) (§ 230.604(d) of this chapter).

(c-1) With respect to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: (1) To grant and deny applications filed pursuant to section 24(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78x(b)) and Rule 24b-2 thereunder (§ 240.24b-2 of this chapter) for confidential treatment of information filed pursuant to section 13(f) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and Rule 13f-1 thereunder (§ 240.13f-1 of this chapter).

(2) To revoke a grant of confidential treatment for any such application.

(3) To administer the provisions of § 240.24c-1 of this chapter; provided that access to nonpublic information as defined in such section shall be provided only with the concurrence of the head of the Commission division or office responsible for such information or the files containing such information.

(4) To administer the provisions of section 24(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78x(d)).

(d) To issue certifications to investment companies that are principally engaged in the furnishing of capital to corporations that are principally engaged in the development or exploitation of inventions, technological improvements, new processes, or products not previously generally available, under Section 851(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 851(e)), where applications from the investment companies do not present issues that have not been previously settled by the Commission and do not require a hearing.

(e) With respect to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 to 80b-22):

(1) Pursuant to section 203(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(c)): To authorize the issuance of orders granting registration of investment advisers within 45 days of the filing of an application for registration as an investment adviser (or within such longer period as to which the applicant consents).

(2) Pursuant to section 203(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(h)), to authorize the issuance of orders canceling registration of investment advisers, or applications for registration, if such investment advisers or applicants for registration are no longer in existence, not engaged in business as investment advisers, or are prohibited from registering as investment advisers under Section 203A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a).

(3) To issue notices, under § 275.0-5 of this chapter, with respect to applications for orders under the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder where, upon examination, the matter does not appear to the Director to present significant issues that have not been previously settled by the Commission or to raise questions of fact or policy indicating that the public interest or the interest of investors warrants that the Commission consider the matter.

(4) To authorize the issuance of orders where a notice, pursuant to § 275.0-5 of this chapter, has been issued, no request for a hearing has been received from any interested person within the period specified in the notice, and the Director believes that the matter presents no significant issues that have not been previously settled by the Commission and it does not appear to the Director to be necessary in the public interest or the interest of investors that the Commission consider the matter.
