
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-5 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Investment Management.
####### et seq.

(5) To permit the withdrawal of applications pursuant to the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-1).

(6) Pursuant to Rule 204-2(j)(3)(ii) (§ 275.204-2(j)(3)(ii) of this chapter), to make written demands upon non-resident investment advisers subject to the provisions of such rule to furnish to the Commission true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all books and records which such non-resident investment advisers are required to make, keep current or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act, or any part of such books and records which may be specified in any such demand.

(7) Pursuant to section 203A(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3a(d)), to set the terms of, and grant or deny as appropriate, continuing hardship exemptions under § 275.203-3 of this chapter.

(f) To consult on behalf of the Commission pursuant to sections 5318A(a)(4), 5318A(e)(2) and 5318(h)(2) of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5318A(a)(4), 5318A(e)(2) and 5318(h)(2)) with respect to matters described in § 200.20b.

(g) To consult on behalf of the Commission pursuant to the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), as amended (Pub. L. 107-56 (2001), 115 Stat. 272) with respect to matters described in § 200.20b.

(h) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) In any case in which the Director of the Division of Investment Management believes it appropriate, the Director may submit the matter to the Commission.
