
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### § 200.30-14 Delegation of authority to the General Counsel.

Pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. 101-181, 101 Stat. 1254, 101 Stat. 1255, 15 U.S.C. 78d-1, 15 U.S.C. 78d-2, and 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2)(B)(ii), the Securities and Exchange Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, the following functions to the General Counsel of the Commission, to be performed by the General Counsel or under the General Counsel's direction by such person or persons as may be designated from time to time by the Chairman of the Commission:

(a) Grant waivers of imputed disqualification requested pursuant to 17 CFR 200.735-8(d).

(b) Determine whether the Commission will submit, after consultation with any Division or Office of the Commission designated by the Commission, an amicus curiae brief in private litigation on issues previously considered and designated by the Commission as appropriate for the exercise of delegated authority. A list of the issues designated by the Commission as subject to this delegated authority and, where determined by the Commission, the position to be taken on each such issue, may be obtained on request addressed to Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549.

(c) Determine the appropriate disposition of all Freedom of Information Act and confidential treatment appeals in accordance with §§ 200.80(f) and (g)(12) and 200.83(e), (f), and (h).

(d) Determine the appropriate disposition of all Privacy Act appeals and related matters in accordance with §§ 200.304 (a) and (c); 200.307 (a) and (b); 200.308(a) (4)-(10); 200.308(b) (1)-(4); and 200.309(e) (1) and (2).

(e) File notices of appearance in bankruptcy reorganization cases under section 1109(a) of the Bankruptcy Code involving debtors, the securities of which are registered or required to be registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act.

(f) In bankruptcy cases, to take the following actions with respect to plan or settlement provisions that have the effect of releasing, exculpating, discharging, or permanently enjoining actions against non-debtor third parties in contravention of Section 524(e) of the Bankruptcy Code or applicable law:

(1) Object to approval of disclosure statements, including on the basis that the disclosure statement lacks adequate information under Section 1125(b) to support such release provisions;

(2) Object to confirmation of bankruptcy plans; or

(3) Object to approval of settlements.

(g) Approve non-expert, non-privileged, factual testimony by present or former staff members, and the production of non-privileged documents, when validly subpoenaed; and assert governmental privileges on behalf of the Commission in litigation where the Commission appears as a party or in response to third party subpoenas.
