
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### ยง 200.30-14 Delegation of authority to the General Counsel.
####### et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,

(h)(1) With respect to proceedings conducted pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77athe Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78athe Trust Indenture Act of 1939, 15 U.S.C. 77aaathe Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80b-1the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaathe provisions of Rule 102(e) of the Commission Rules of Practice, ยง 201.102(e) of this chapter, and Title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 U.S.C. 7211-7219:

(i) To consider an application for review of an interlocutory ruling which an administrative law judge has refused to certify, and to deny such application upon determining that the administrative law judge did not err in refusing to certify the matter.

(ii) To consider an interlocutory ruling which an administrative judge has certified, and to affirm such ruling upon determining that such action is appropriate.

(iii) To issue any order pursuant to an initial decision as to any person who has not filed a petition for review within the time provided, or has withdrawn an appeal, where the Commission has not on its own motion ordered that the initial decision be reviewed.

(iv) Except where the Commission otherwise directs, to issue findings and orders pursuant to offers of settlement which the Commission has determined should be accepted.

(v) To grant petitions for review of initial decisions by a hearing officer.

(vi) To grant motions of staff counsel to discontinue administrative proceedings as to a particular respondent who has died or cannot be found, or because of a mistake in the identity of a respondent named in the order for proceedings.

(vii) To request additional briefs or grant requests for the submission of late or additional briefs, or the acceptance of affidavits or other material for inclusion in the record or in support of motions or petitions addressed to the Commission.

(viii) To issue an order dismissing an application for review upon the request of the applicant that the application be withdrawn.

(ix) To issue an order dismissing an exemptive application upon the request of the applicant that the application be withdrawn.

(x) To determine motions to consolidate proceedings pending before the Commission.

(xi) To determine whether to permit or require that a record of proceedings be supplemented with additional evidence.

(xii) To issue an order setting the effective date of sanctions that were stayed pending appeal to the federal courts, upon issuance of the mandate affirming the Commission's order imposing those sanctions.

(xiii) To issue a briefing schedule order pursuant to Rule 450 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, ยง 201.450 of this chapter.

(xiv) To determine motions for expedited briefing schedules.

(xv) To issue an order raising, pursuant to the provisions of Rule 411(d) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, ยง 201.411(d) of this chapter, any matter relating to whether any sanction, and if so what sanction, is in the public interest.
