
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart A - Organization and Program Management
##### General Organization
###### ยง 200.30-14 Delegation of authority to the General Counsel.
####### et seq.

(m) With respect to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a):

(1) To administer the provisions of ยง 240.24c-1 of this chapter; provided that access to nonpublic information as defined in such section shall be provided only with the concurrence of the head of the Commission division or office responsible for such information or the files containing such information.

(2) To administer the provisions of section 24(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78x(d)).

(n) To refer matters and information concerning possible professional misconduct to state bar associations and other state professional boards or societies.

(o) File applications in district court under Section 21(e)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u(e)(1)) to obtain orders commanding persons to comply with Commission orders.

(p)(1) To designate officers empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records in the course of investigations instituted by the Commission pursuant to Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u) including for possible violations by attorneys of Rule 102(e) of the Commission Rules of Practice (17 CFR 201.102(e)).

(2) To terminate the authority of officers to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records in the course of investigations instituted by the Commission pursuant to Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u) including for possible violations by attorneys of Rule 102(e) of the Commission Rules of Practice (17 CFR 201.102(e)).
