
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart B - Disposition of Commission Business
##### ยง 200.43 Disposition of business by exercise of authority delegated to individual Commissioner.
###### Delegation to duty officer.,Provided, however,,et seq.,

(a)(1) Pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. No. 87-592, 76 Stat. 394, as amended by section 25 of Pub. L. 94-29, 89 Stat. 163, the Commission hereby delegates to an individual Commissioner, to be designated as the Commission's "duty officer" by the Chairman of the Commission (or by the Chairman's designee) from time to time, all of the functions of the Commission;That no such delegation shall authorize the duty officer (i) to exercise the function of rulemaking, as defined in the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946, as codified, 5 U.S.C. 551with reference to general rules as distinguished from rules of particular applicability; (ii) to make any rule, pursuant to section 19(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or (iii) to preside at the taking of evidence as described in section 7(a) of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556(b), except that the duty officer may preside at the taking of evidence with respect to the issuance of a temporary cease-and-desist order as provided by Rule 511(c) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, ยง 201.511(c) of this chapter.

(2) To the extent feasible, the designation of a duty officer shall rotate, under the administration of the Secretary, on a regular weekly basis among the members of the Commission other than the Chairman.
