
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.80 Securities and Exchange Commission records and information.
###### Unusual circumstances.

(5)The Office of FOIA Services may extend the time period for processing a FOIA request in "unusual circumstances." To extend the time, the Office of FOIA Services shall notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request is expected to be completed. If the extension exceeds 10 working days, the Office of FOIA Services shall provide the requester, in writing, with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request. The Office of FOIA Services shall also make available its FOIA Public Liaisons to assist in the resolution of any disputes and notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services. For purposes of this section, "unusual circumstances" include:

(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request.

(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are the subject of a single request.

(iii) The need to consult with another Federal agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the FOIA request or among two or more divisions or offices within the Commission having substantial subject-matter interest therein.
