
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.80 Securities and Exchange Commission records and information.
###### Expedited processing.

(7)The Office of FOIA Services shall grant a request for expedited processing if the requester demonstrates a "compelling need" for the records. "Compelling need" means that a failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to an individual's life or physical safety or, if the requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information, an urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity.

(i) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at any later time.

(ii) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, explaining why there is a "compelling need" for the records.

(iii) The Office of FOIA Services shall determine whether to grant or deny a request for expedited processing and provide notice of that determination within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request by the Office of FOIA Services. A request for records that has been granted expedited processing shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that determination shall be decided expeditiously.
