
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.80 Securities and Exchange Commission records and information.
###### Responses to requests.

(2)(i) Any letter determining whether to comply with a request will inform the requester of the right to seek assistance from the Office of FOIA Services' FOIA Public Liaisons.

(ii) If the Office of FOIA Services makes a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing of such determination, disclose records to the requester, and collect any applicable fees.

(iii) If the Office of FOIA Services makes an adverse determination regarding a request, it shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the requested record does not exist (or is not subject to the FOIA), cannot be located, or has previously been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily producible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include designations of requesters' fee category, denials of fee waiver requests, or denials of requests for expedited processing.

(iv) An adverse determination letter shall be signed and include:

(A) The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the adverse determination;

(B) A brief statement of the reasons for the adverse determination, including any FOIA exemption applied by the official denying the request;

(C) For records disclosed in part, markings or annotations to show the applicable FOIA exemption(s) and the amount of information deleted, unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted shall also be indicated on the record, if feasible;

(D) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld by providing the number of pages withheld in their entirety or some other reasonable form of estimation. This estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on the records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable FOIA exemption;

(E) A statement that the adverse determination may be appealed under paragraph (f) of this section, and a description of the requirements for filing an administrative appeal set forth in that paragraph; and

(F) A statement of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of FOIA Services' FOIA Public Liaisons or the Office of Government Information Services ("OGIS").
