
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.80 Securities and Exchange Commission records and information.
###### Notice of anticipated fees.

(5)(i) When the Office of FOIA Services determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed the amount it would cost the Office of FOIA Services to collect and process the fees, the Office of FOIA Services shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of fees, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as the estimated fees. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the Office of FOIA Services shall advise the requester accordingly. If the requester is not a commercial use requester, the notice shall specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge.

(ii) In cases in which a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees will amount to more than it would cost the Office of FOIA Services to collect and process the fees, or amount to more than the amount the requester indicated a willingness to pay, the Office of FOIA Services will do no further work on the request until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a requester who is not a commercial use requester, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The Office of FOIA Services will toll the response period while it notifies the requester of the actual or estimated amount of fees and this time will be excluded from the 20 working day time limit (as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). The requester's agreement to pay fees must be made in writing, must designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay, and must be received within 30 calendar days from the date of the notification of the fee estimate. If the requester fails to submit an agreement to pay the anticipated fees within 30 calendar days from the date of the Office of FOIA Services' fee notice, the Office of FOIA Services will presume that the requester is no longer interested in the records and notify the requester that the request has been closed.

(iii) The Office of FOIA Services shall make available their FOIA Public Liaisons or other FOIA professionals to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
