
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.80 Securities and Exchange Commission records and information.
###### Advance payments.,i.e.,,i.e.,

(9)(i) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g)(9)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the Office of FOIA Services shall not require a requester to make advance payment (payment made before the Office of FOIA Services begins to process or continues to work on a request). Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(ii) When the Office of FOIA Services determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated fee and may require the requester to make an advance payment of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. A notice under this paragraph shall offer the requester an opportunity to discuss the matter with the Office of FOIA Services' FOIA Public Liaisons or other FOIA professionals to modify the request in an effort to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.

(iii) When a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to the Office of FOIA Services or other Federal agency within 30 calendar days of the date of billing, the Office of FOIA Services shall notify the requester that he or she is required to pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee, before the Office of FOIA Services begins to process a new request or continues processing a pending request from that requester. Where the Office of FOIA Services has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity and pay in advance.

(iv) When the Office of FOIA Services requires advance payment or payment due under paragraphs (g)(9)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the Office of FOIA Services will not further process the request until the required payment is made. The Office of FOIA Services will toll the processing of the request while it notifies the requester of the advanced payment due and this time will be excluded from the 20 working day time limit (as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days from the date of the Office of FOIA Services' fee notice, the Office of FOIA Services will presume that the requester is no longer interested in the records and notify the requester that the request has been closed.
