
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.81 Publication of interpretative, no-action and certain exemption letters and other written communications.
###### et seq.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, every letter or other written communication requesting the staff of the Commission to provide interpretative legal advice with respect to any statute administered by the Commission or any rule or regulation adopted thereunder; or requesting a statement that, on the basis of the facts stated in such letter or other communication, the staff would not recommend that the Commission take any enforcement action; or requesting an exemption, on the basis of the facts stated in such letter, from the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a) or any rule or regulation thereunder, where the issuance of an order granting such exemption does not require public notice and an opportunity for hearing; together with any written response thereto, shall be made available for inspection and copying by any person as soon as practicable after the response has been sent or given to the person requesting it.

(b) Any person submitting such letter or other written communication may also submit therewith a request that it be accorded confidential treatment for a specified period of time, not exceeding 120 days from the date the response, together with a statement setting forth the considerations upon which the request for such treatment is based. If the staff determines that the request is reasonable and appropriate it will be granted and the letter or other communication will not be made available for public inspection or copying until the expiration of the specified period. If it appears to the staff that the request for confidential treatment should be denied, the staff shall so advise the person making the request and such person may withdraw the letter or other communication within 30 days thereafter. In such case, no response will be sent or given and the letter or other communication shall remain in the Commission's files but will not be made public. If such letter or other communication is not so withdrawn, it shall be deemed to be available for public inspection and copying together with any written response thereto.

(c) This section shall not apply, however, to letters of comment or other communications relating to the accuracy or adequacy of any registration statement, report, proxy, or information statement or other document filed with the Commission, or relating to the extent to which such statement, report, or document complies with any applicable requirement. Further, this section shall not apply to applications or other written communications filed pursuant to ยง 240.24b-2 that relate to objections to public disclosure of information filed with the Commission or any exchange.
