
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.83 Confidential treatment procedures under the Freedom of Information Act.
###### Written request for confidential treatment to be submitted with information.

(c)(1) Any person who, either voluntarily or pursuant to any requirement of law, submits any information or causes or permits any information to be submitted to the Commission, which information is entitled to confidential treatment and for which no other specific procedure exists for according confidential treatment, may request that the Commission afford confidential treatment under the Freedom of Information Act to such information for reasons of personal privacy or business confidentiality, or for any other reason permitted by Federal law, and should take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure, as nearly as practicable, that at the time the information is first received by the Commission (i) it is supplied segregated from information for which confidential treatment is not being requested, (ii) it is appropriately marked as confidential, and (iii) it is accompanied by a written request for confidential treatment which specifies the information as to which confidential treatment is requested.

(2) A person who submits a record to the Commission for which he or she seeks confidential treatment must clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words "Confidential Treatment Requested by [name]" and an identifying number and code, such as a Bates-stamped number. In his or her written confidential treatment request, the person must refer to the record by identifying number and code.

(3) In addition to giving a copy of any written request for confidential treatment to the Commission employee receiving the record in question, the person requesting confidential treatment must send a copy of the request (but not the record) by mail to the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations, SEC, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. The legend "FOIA Confidential Treatment Request" must clearly and prominently appear on the top of the first page of the written request, and the written request must contain the name, address, and telephone number of the person requesting confidential treatment. The person requesting confidential treatment is responsible for informing the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations promptly of any changes in address, telephone number, or representation.

(4) In some circumstances, such as when a person is testifying in the course of a Commission investigation or providing a record requested in the course of a Commission examination or inspection, it may be impracticable to submit a written request for confidential treatment at the time the record is first given to the Commission. In no circumstances can the need to comply with the requirements of this section justify or excuse any delay in submitting any record to the Commission. The person testifying or otherwise submitting the record must inform the Commission employee receiving it, at the time the record is submitted or as soon thereafter as possible, that he or she is requesting confidential treatment. The person must then submit a written confidential treatment request within 30 days from the date of the testimony or the submission of the record. Any confidential treatment request submitted under this paragraph must also comply with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(5) Where confidential treatment is requested by the submitter on behalf of another person, the request must identify that person and provide the telephone number and address of that person or the person's responsible representative if the submitter would be unable to provide prompt substantiation of the request at the appropriate time.

(6) No determination on a request for confidential treatment will be made until the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations receives a request for disclosure of the record.

(7) A confidential treatment request will expire ten years from the date the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations receives it, unless that Office receives a renewal request before the confidential treatment request expires. The renewal request must be sent by mail to the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations, SEC, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, and must clearly identify the record for which confidential treatment is sought. A renewal request will likewise expire ten years from the date that Office receives it, unless that Office receives another timely renewal request which complies with the requirements of this paragraph.

(8) A confidential treatment request shall be nonpublic. If an action is filed in a Federal court, however, by either the Freedom of Information Act requester (under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4) and ยง 200.80(f)) or by the confidential treatment requester (under paragraph (e)(5) of this section), the confidential treatment request may become part of the court record.
