
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart D - Information and Requests
##### ยง 200.83 Confidential treatment procedures under the Freedom of Information Act.
###### Appeal from initial determination that confidential treatment is not warranted.

(e)(1) In a preliminary decision, which shall be sent by mail or facsimile, or both, the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations will inform the confidential treatment requester whether it intends to grant confidentiality in whole or in part and give the requester ten calendar days from the date of the preliminary decision to submit supplemental arguments if the requester disagrees with the preliminary decision. A final decision, which shall also be sent by mail or facsimile, or both, no sooner than ten calendar days from the date of the preliminary decision, shall inform the Freedom of Information Act requester and the confidential treatment requester of his or her right to appeal an adverse decision to the Commission's General Counsel within ten calendar days from the date of the final decision. Records, which the Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Officer determines to be releasable, may be released to the Freedom of Information Act requester ten calendar days after the date of the final decision. However, if within those ten calendar days, the Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Officer receives an appeal from the confidential treatment requester, he or she shall inform the Freedom of Information Act requester that an appeal is pending and that the records will not be released until the appeal is resolved.

(2) Any appeal of a denial of a request for confidential treatment shall be in writing, and shall be clearly and prominently identified on the envelope or other cover and at the top of the first page by the legend "FOIA Confidential Treatment Appeal." The appeal must be sent by mail to the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations, SEC, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, or by facsimile (202-772-9337). A copy of the appeal must be mailed to the General Counsel, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. The person requesting confidential treatment may supply additional substantiation of the request for confidential treatment in connection with the appeal to the General Counsel.

(3) The General Counsel shall have the authority to consider all appeals from decisions of the Freedom of Information Act Officer with respect to confidential treatment. All appeals taken under this section will be considered by the General Counsel as expeditiously as circumstances permit. Although other procedures may be employed, to the extent possible, the General Counsel will decide the matter on the basis of the affidavits and other documentary evidence submitted by the interested persons and such other information as is brought to the attention of the General Counsel. The General Counsel shall also have the authority to enter and vacate stays under the circumstances set forth in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. In appropriate cases the General Counsel may, in his or her sole and unfettered discretion, refer appeals and questions concerning stays under paragraph (e)(5) of this section to the Commission for decision.

(4) If it is determined that confidential treatment is not warranted with respect to all or any part of the information in question, the person requesting confidential treatment will be so informed by telephone, if possible, with a facsimile or certified mail letter directed to the person's last known address. Disclosure of the information under the Freedom of Information Act will occur ten calendar days after notice to the person requesting confidential treatment, subject to any stay entered pursuant to paragraph (e) (5) of this section.

(5) If within that ten calendar day period the General Counsel has been notified that the person requesting confidential treatment has commenced an action in a Federal court concerning the determination to make such information publicly available, the General Counsel will stay making the public disclosure of the information pending final judicial resolution of the matter. The General Counsel may vacate a stay under this section either on his or her own motion or at the request of a person seeking access to the information under the Freedom of Information Act. If the stay is vacated, the information will be released under the Freedom of Information Act ten calendar days after the person requesting confidential treatment is notified of this action by telephone, if possible, with a facsimile or certified mail letter sent to the person's last known address, unless the court orders otherwise.
