
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart H - Regulations Pertaining to the Privacy of Individuals and Systems of Records Maintained by the Commission
##### ยง 200.308 Appeal of initial adverse agency determination as to access or as to amendment or correction.
###### Statement of disagreement.

(b)As noted in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section, an individual may file with the General Counsel a statement setting forth his disagreement with the General Counsel's denial of his request to amend or correct a record.

(1) Such statement of disagreement shall be delivered or sent by mail to the Office of Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Operations, SEC, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria, VA 22312-2413, or by facsimile (703-914-1149), within 30 days after receipt by the individual of the General Counsel's order denying the amendment or correction. For good cause shown this period can be extended for a reasonable time.

(2) Such statement of disagreement shall concisely state the basis for the individual's agreement. Generally a statement should be no more than two pages in length, except an individual may submit a slightly longer statement if it is necessary to set forth his disagreement effectively. Unduly lengthy or irrelevant materials will be returned to the individual by the General Counsel for appropriate revisions before they become a permanent part of the individual's record.

(3) The record about which a statement of disagreement has been filed will clearly note which part of the record is disputed and the General Counsel will provide copies of the statement of disagreement and, if the General Counsel deems it appropriate, provide a concise statement of his or her reasons for refusing to amend or correct the record, to persons or other agencies to whom the record has been or will be disclosed.

(4) In appropriate cases, the General Counsel may, in his or her sole and unfettered discretion, refer matters concerning statements of disagreement to the Commission for disposition.
