
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart H - Regulations Pertaining to the Privacy of Individuals and Systems of Records Maintained by the Commission
##### § 200.309 General provisions.
###### Extensions of time.,good cause,unusual circumstances

(a)Pursuant to §§ 200.303(b), 200.304(d), 200.307(c) and 200.308(a)(4) of this subpart, the time within which a request for information, access or amendment by an individual with respect to records maintained by the Commission that pertain to him normally would be processed may be extended for good cause shown or because of unusual circumstances. As used in these rules,andshall include, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of a particular request:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the Office processing the request. Many records of the Commission are stored in Federal Records Centers in accordance with law-including many of the documents which have been on file with the Commission for more than 2 years-and cannot be made available promptly. Other records may temporarily be located at a Regional Office of the Commission. Any person who has requested for personal examination a record stored at the Federal Records Center or temporarily located in a Regional Office of the Commission will be notified when the record will be made available to him.

(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which may be demanded in a single request. While every reasonable effort will be made fully to comply with each request as promptly as possible on a first-come, first-served basis, work done to search for, collect and appropriately examine records in response to a request for a large number of records will be contingent upon the availability of processing personnel in accordance with an equitable allocation of time to all members of the public who have requested or wish to request records.

(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more components within the Commission having substantial subject-matter interest therein.
