
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart J - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information and Material
##### ยง 200.504 Oversight Committee.

An Oversight Committee is established, under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer, with the following responsibilities:

(a) Establish a security education program to familiarize Commission and other personnel who have access to classified information with the provisions of Executive Order 12065, and encourage Commission personnel to challenge those classification decisions they believe to be improper.

(b) Establish controls to insure that classified information is used, processed, stored, reproduced, and transitted only under conditions that will provide adequate protection and prevent access by unauthorized persons.

(c) Establish procedures which require that a demonstrable need, under section 4-1 of Executive Order 12065, for access to classified information be established before administrative clearance procedures are initiated, as well as other appropriate procedures to prevent unnecessary access to classified information.

(d) Act on all suggestions and complaints concerning Commission administration of its information security program.

(e) Establish procedures within the Commission to insure the orderly and effective referral of requests for declassification of documents in the Commission's possession.

(f) Review on an annual basis all practices for safeguarding information and to eliminate those practices which are duplicative or unnecessary.

(g) Recommend to the Chairman of the Commission appropriate administrative action to correct abuse or violation of any provision of Executive Order 12356.

(h) Consider and decide other questions concerning classification and declassification that may be brought before it.

(i) Develop special contingency plans for the protection of classified information used in or near hostile or potentially hostile areas.

(j) Promptly notify the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office whenever an officer or employee of the United States Government or its contractors, licensees or grantees knowingly, willfully or negligently (1) discloses to unauthorized persons information properly classified under Executive Order 12356 or predecessor orders or (2) classifies or continues the classification of information in violation of Executive Order 12356 or predecessor orders.
