
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart J - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information and Material
##### ยง 200.508 Requests for mandatory review for declassification.

(a) Requests for mandatory review of a Commission document for declassification may be made by any United States citizen or permanent resident alien, including Commission employees, or a Federal agency, or a State or local government. The request shall be in writing and shall be sent to the Office of the Chief Operating Officer, Attn: Mandatory Review Request, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549.

(b) The request shall describe the material sufficiently to enable the Commission to locate it. Requests with insufficient description of the material will be returned to the requester for further information.

(c) Within 5 days of receiving a request for declassification, the Commission shall acknowledge its receipt. If the document was derivatively classified by the Commission or originally classified by another agency, the request and the document shall be forwarded promptly to the agency with original classification authority together with the Commission's recommendation to withhold any of the information where appropriate. The requester shall be notified of the referral.

(d) If the request requires the provision of services by the Commission, fair and equitable fees may be charged under title 5 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 65 Stat. 290, 31 U.S.C. 483a.
