
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart M - Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
##### ยง 200.735-4 Outside employment and activities.
###### amicus curiae;

(ii) Make comments on pending litigation in which the Commission is participating as a party oror

(iii) Make comments on rulemaking proceedings pending before the Commission which would adversely affect the operations of the Commission.

(2) To assist employees in conforming to these requirements the following procedure for reviewing writings prior to publication, or prepared speeches prior to delivery, has been established:

(i) Employees must submit proposed publications or prepared speeches relating to the Commission, or the statutes or rules it administers, to the General Counsel for review. Employees will be notified as promptly as possible, with due regard to publication deadlines, but in any event within 30 days of receipt of the written document, whether such document conforms to the requirements of this Rule.

(ii)(A) A determination by the General Counsel that a proposed publication conforms to the requirements of the rule will not involve adoption of, or concurrence in, the views expressed. Therefore, such publication or speech shall include at an appropriate place or in a footnote or otherwise, the following disclaimer of responsibility:

(B) In appropriate cases, the above disclaimer may be modified by the General Counsel or the Commission to reflect the circumstances of an individual case. In addition, any publication or speech that reflects positions taken by the Commission shall set forth those positions accurately and, if it contains differences with Commission positions, it shall clearly state that such positions are those of the employee.

(e) With respect to host-paid travel, members and employees shall comply with the requirements of the Supplemental standards of ethical conduct for members and employees of the Securities and Exchange Commission (codified at 5 CFR 4401.103 (Outside employment and activities)); 5 CFR part 2635, subpart H (Outside Activities); and 31 U.S.C. 1353 and 41 CFR 304-1.1 (Acceptance of payment from a non-Federal source for travel expenses).

(f)(1) With respect to seeking or negotiating outside employment, members and employees shall comply with the requirements of the Supplemental standards of ethical conduct for members and employees of the Securities and Exchange Commission (codified at 5 CFR 4401.103 (Outside employment and activities)); 5 CFR part 2635, subpart F (Seeking other employment); 5 CFR part 2635, subpart H (Outside activities).

(2) Members and employees should be aware that 18 U.S.C. 208 (Acts affecting a personal interest) provides, among other things, that a member or employee is prohibited from participating personally and substantially in any particular matter in which, to his or her knowledge, the member or employee, his or her spouse, minor child, general partner, organization of which the employee is an officer, director, trustee, general partner or employee, or any person or organization with whom he or she is negotiating or has any arrangement concerning prospective employment, has a financial interest. This provision does not apply if the employee has received a written determination by an authorized official that the financial interest is not so substantial as to be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the employee's government service.

(3) Members may follow the procedural provision contained in Part V, Section 503 of the Executive Order 11222.

(g) An employee who intends to accept or perform any outside or private employment or professional work shall obtain necessary authorization in advance of such acceptance or performance. A request for such authorization shall be submitted to the Division Director, Office Head or Regional Director concerned, together with all pertinent facts regarding the proposed employment, such as the name of the employer, the nature of the work to be performed, its estimated duration, and the fee or compensation to be received. Division Directors, Office Heads and Regional Directors have been delegated the authority to approve routine requests for outside employment. The approving official shall forward to the Director of Personnel a copy of each request showing the date of approval. Requests of a non-routine nature should be forwarded to the Director of Personnel.

(h) The Director of Personnel, or his designee, is authorized to approve or disapprove requests for outside or private employment under this rule, except as to those cases which, in his judgment, should be considered and decided by the Commission. An employee may appeal a disapproved request to the Commission. The written appeal, submitted through the Director of Personnel, shall give reasons why the proposed outside or private employment is consistent with this rule. The Director of Personnel may not approve proposed outside or private employment which is absolutely prohibited by these rules. The Commission may, in a particular case, approve such employment.
