
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart M - Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
##### ยง 200.735-8 Practice by former members and employees of the Commission.
###### firm

(d)(1) Partners or associates of any person disqualified from appearing or practicing before the Commission in a particular matter are also disqualified. Such partners or associates (the) may request a waiver of this prohibition from the Commission by writing a letter to the General Counsel of the commission setting forth the facts of the proposed representation and the individual's disqualification. In appropriate situations, a firm may request a generic waiver with respect to a number of different matters. Upon the advice of the Office of the General Counsel, the Commission, or the General Counsel exercising delegated authority, will advise the requestor of the Commission's response.

(2) Waivers ordinarily will be granted where the firm makes a satisfactory representation that it has adopted screening measures which will effectively isolate the individual lawyer disqualified from participating in the particular matter or matters and from sharing in any fees attributable to it. It will be considered significant for purposes of this determination that:

(i) The firm had a pre-existing securities law practice prior to the arrival of the disqualified attorney;

(ii) The matter was previously the subject of consideration by the firm or the client was already advised by the firm;

(iii) In cases where the matter or client became the subject of consideration by the firm subsequent to the firm's employment of the lawyer individually disqualified, that the matter was not brought to the firm because of the disqualified attorney.

(3) Notwithstanding the existence or non-existence of any of these factors, no waiver will be issued if the proposed representation would create a significant appearance of impropriety or would otherwise adversely affect the interests of the government.All proceedings with respect to waivers shall be a matter of public record except to the extent that such public disclosure might violate attorney-client privilege or breach the attorney's obligation to preserve the confidences and secrets of this or her clients, reveal the existence of ongoing private investigations, interfere with law enforcement proceedings, or otherwise be inconsistent with the public interest.

(e) Persons in doubt as to the applicability of any portion of this section may apply for an advisory ruling of the Commission.
