
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart M - Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
##### ยง 200.735-11 Statement of employment and financial interests.
###### member of the employee's immediate household,

(5) In the instance where a spouse is not aand the employee certifies he or she neither derives nor expects to derive any economic benefit from the holdings of the spouse, the Director of Personnel may waive the requirement of reporting the interests of such spouse.

(c) Statements of employment and financial interests filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be sent to the Ethics Office in a sealed envelope marked "Confidential Employment and Financial Interests." They shall be maintained in a confidential file. Only those officials of the Commission whose participation is necessary for the carrying out of the purpose of this Conduct Regulation may have access to such statements and no information may be disclosed from them except as the Commission or the Office of Personnel Management may determine for good cause shown.

(d) In accordance with the requirements of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-521, the Ethics Office shall review the financial disclosure reports filed pursuant to that Act.

(e) The Ethics Office shall examine the statements of employment and financial interests filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to determine whether conflicts of interest or apparent conflicts of interest on the part of employees exist. An employee shall be afforded the opportunity to explain any conflict or appearance of conflict. When the Director or Assistant Director of Personnel, in consultation with appropriate superiors of the employee involved, is unable to resolve a conflict or appearance of conflict, he or she shall report the matter to the Commission through the Counselor for the Commission designated under ยง 200.735-15(a).

(f) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a) of this section the statement of employment and financial interests and supplementary statements required of employees are in addition to, and not in substitution for, or in derogation of, any similar requirement imposed by law, order or regulation. The submission of a statement by an employee does not permit him or her or any other person to participate in a matter in which his or her or the other person's participation is prohibited by law, order or regulation.

(g) An employee has the right to ask for a review through the Commission's grievance procedure outlined in section 771, Part II, Manual of Administrative Regulations, of a complaint that his or her position has been improperly included under the provisions of this section as one requiring the submission of a statement of employment and financial interests.
