
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart M - Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
##### ยง 200.735-12 Special Government employees.
###### inside information

(2) Use inside information obtained as a result of his or her Government employment for private gain for himself or herself or another person either by direct action on his or her part or by counsel, recommendation, or suggestion to another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties. For purposes of this paragraph,means information obtained under Government authority which has not become part of the body of public information.

(3) Use his or her Government employment to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a person to provide financial benefit to himself or herself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties.

(4) Receive or solicit from a person having business with the Commission anything of value as a gift, gratuity, loan, entertainment, or favor for himself or herself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business or financial ties.

(c) Prior to entrance on duty, each special Government employee shall submit to the Director of Personnel a statement of employment and financial interests which contains such information as the Director of Personnel determines is relevant in the light of the duties the special Government employee is to perform and, if appropriate, the financial disclosure report as provided by title II of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-521. It shall be kept current throughout the period of employment by the filing of supplementary statements in accordance with the requirements of ยง 200.735-11(d). Statements shall be on the official form made available for this purpose through the Office of Personnel.
