
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### Subpart M - Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission
##### ยง 200.735-13 Disciplinary and other remedial action.

(a) Knowing participation in a violation of this subpart by persons not within the scope of the foregoing rules in this subpart shall likewise be deemed improper conduct and in contravention of Commission rules. Departure from any of the rules in this subpart by employees or special Government employees without specific approval may be cause for appropriate remedial and/or disciplinary action or, in the case of former members, employees, and special Government employees, for disqualification from appearing and practicing before the Commission, which may be in addition to any penalty prescribed by law.

(b) When there has been a departure from any of the rules of this subpart without specific approval or when a conflict of interest or an apparent conflict of interest on the part of an employee or special Government employee arises, the Director of Personnel may order immediate action to end such conflict or appearance of conflict of interest. Remedial action may include, but is not limited to (1) changes in assigned duties; (2) divestment by the employee or special Government employee of his conflicting interest; (3) disciplinary action; or (4) disqualification for a particular assignment. Remedial action, whether disciplinary or otherwise, shall be effected in accordance with any applicable laws, Executive Orders, and regulations. The Director of Personnel may refer any recommended action to the Commission. The employee may obtain review by the Commission of any action ordered to be taken by the Director of Personnel. During the period of review, unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the action ordered by the Director of Personnel is stayed.
