
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Rules of Practice
##### General Rules
###### ยง 201.194 Applications by security-based swap dealers or major security-based swap participants for statutorily disqualified associated persons to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps.
####### et seq.

(3) Applications made pursuant to this section must show that it would be consistent with the public interest to permit the associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. In addition to the information specifically required by the rule, applications should be supplemented, where appropriate, by written statements of individuals who are competent to attest to the associated person's character, employment performance, and other relevant information. In addition to the information required by the rule, the Commission staff may request supplementary information to assist in the Commission's review. Intentional misstatements or omissions of fact may constitute criminal violations of 18 U.S.C. 1001,and other provisions of law. The Commission will not consider any application that attempts to reargue or collaterally attack the findings that resulted in the statutory disqualification.

(4) The nature of the supervision that an associated person will receive or exercise as an associated person with a registered entity is an important matter bearing upon the public interest. In meeting the burden of showing that permitting the associated person to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is consistent with the public interest, the application and supporting documentation must demonstrate that the terms or conditions of association, procedures or proposed supervision, are reasonably designed to ensure that the statutory disqualification does not negatively affect the ability of the associated person to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant in compliance with the applicable statutory and regulatory framework.

(5) Normally, the applicant's burden of demonstrating that permitting the associated person to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is consistent with the public interest will be difficult to meet where the associated person is to be supervised by, or is to supervise, another statutorily disqualified individual. In addition, where there is an absence of supervision over the associated person who is subject to a statutory disqualification, the applicant's burden will be difficult to meet. The associated person may be limited to association in a specified capacity with a particular registered entity and may also be subject to specific terms and conditions.
