
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Rules of Practice
##### Initiation of Proceedings and Prehearing Rules
###### § 201.233 Depositions upon oral examination.
####### Grounds and standards for motion.

(ii)A motion under this paragraph (a)(3) shall not be granted unless the additional depositions satisfy § 201.232(e) and the moving side demonstrates a compelling need for the additional depositions by:

(A) Identifying each of the witnesses whom the moving side plans to depose pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section as well as the additional witnesses whom the side seeks to depose;

(B) Describing the role of each witness and proposed additional witness;

(C) Describing the matters concerning which each witness and proposed additional witness is expected to be questioned, and why the deposition of each witness and proposed additional witness is necessary for the moving side's arguments, claims, or defenses; and

(D) Showing that the additional deposition(s) requested will not be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.

(iii) If the moving side proposes to take and submit the additional deposition(s) on written questions, as provided in § 201.234, the motion shall so state. The motion for additional depositions shall constitute a motion under § 201.234(a), and the moving party is required to submit its questions with its motion under this rule. The procedures for such a deposition shall be governed by § 201.234.

(4) A deponent's attendance may be ordered by subpoena issued pursuant to the procedures in § 201.232; and

(5) The Commission or hearing officer may rule on a motion that a deposition noticed under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall not be taken upon a determination under § 201.232(e). The fact that a witness testified during an investigation does not preclude the deposition of that witness.
