
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Rules of Practice
##### Appeal to the Commission and Commission Review
###### § 201.450 Briefs filed with the Commission.
####### Briefing schedule order.

(a)Other than review ordered pursuant to § 201.431, if review of a determination is mandated by statute, rule, or judicial order or the Commission determines to grant review as a matter of discretion, the Commission shall issue a briefing schedule order directing the party or parties to file opening briefs and specifying particular issues, if any, as to which briefing should be limited or directed. Unless otherwise provided, opening briefs shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the briefing schedule order. Opposition briefs shall be filed within 30 days after the date opening briefs are due. Reply briefs shall be filed within 14 days after the date opposition briefs are due. No briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule order may be filed except with leave of the Commission. The briefing schedule order shall be issued:

(1) At the time the Commission orders review on its own initiative pursuant to §§ 201.411 or 201.421, or orders interlocutory review on its own motion pursuant to § 201.400(a); or

(2) Within 21 days, or such longer time as provided by the Commission, after:

(i) The last day permitted for filing a petition for review pursuant to § 201.410(b) or a brief in opposition to a petition for review pursuant to § 201.410(d);

(ii) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination of a self-regulatory organization filed pursuant to § 201.420(d);

(iii) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination by the Board filed pursuant to § 201.440(d);

(iv) Receipt by the Commission of the mandate of a court of appeals with respect to a judicial remand; or

(v) Certification of a ruling for interlocutory review pursuant to § 201.400(c).
