
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Rules of Practice
##### Rules Regarding Disgorgement and Penalty Payments
###### ยง 201.700 Initiation of proceedings for SRO proposed rule changes and for proposed NMS plans and plan amendments.
####### Conduct of hearings,Initial comment period in writing.

(c)-(1)Unless otherwise specified by the Commission in its notice of grounds for disapproval under consideration, all interested persons will be given an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the proposed rule change or NMS plan filing under consideration and whether the Commission should approve or disapprove the proposed rule change or NMS plan filing.

(i) The self-regulatory organization that submitted the proposed rule change may file a written statement in support of its proposed rule change demonstrating, in specific detail, how such proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the self-regulatory organization, including a response to each of the grounds for disapproval under consideration. Such statement may include specific representations or undertakings by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission will specify in the summary of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the length of the initial comment period.

(ii) The NMS plan participants may file a written statement in support of a NMS plan filing demonstrating, in specific detail, how such NMS plan filing is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to NMS plans, including a response to each of the grounds for disapproval under consideration. Such statement may include specific representations or undertakings by the plan participants. The Commission will specify in the summary of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the length of the initial comment period.
