
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart D - Rules of Practice
##### Rules Regarding Disgorgement and Penalty Payments
###### ยง 201.700 Initiation of proceedings for SRO proposed rule changes and for proposed NMS plans and plan amendments.
####### Rebuttal.

(3)(i) At the end of the initial comment period, the self-regulatory organization that filed the proposed rule change will be given an opportunity to respond to any comments received. The self-regulatory organization may voluntarily file, or the Commission may request a self-regulatory organization to file, a response to a comment received regarding any aspect of the proposed rule change under consideration to assist the Commission in determining whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. The Commission will specify in the summary of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the length of the rebuttal period.

(ii) At the end of the initial comment period, the NMS plan participants will be given an opportunity to respond to any comments received. The plan participants may voluntarily file, or the Commission may request the plan participants to file, a response to a comment received regarding any aspect of such NMS plan filing under consideration to assist the Commission in determining whether such NMS plan filing should be disapproved. The Commission will specify in the summary of the grounds for disapproval under consideration the length of the rebuttal period.
