
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 204 - RULES RELATING TO DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart A - Administrative Offset
##### ยง 204.6 Agency review.

(a) To the extent that a debt owed has not been established by judicial or administrative order, a debtor may request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the terms of repayment. With respect to debts established by a judicial or administrative order, a debtor may request a hearing concerning the payment or other discharge of the debt. A request to review a disputed debt must be submitted to the Commission official who provided notification within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the written notice described in ยง 204.4(c).

(b) The Commission will provide a copy of the record to the debtor and advise him/her to furnish available evidence to support his or her position. Upon receipt of the evidence, the written record of indebtedness will be reviewed and the debtor will be informed of the results of that review.

(c) Pending the resolution of a dispute by the debtor, transactions in any of the debtor's accounts maintained by the Commission may be temporarily suspended. Depending on the type of transaction, the suspension could preclude its payment, removal, or transfer, as well as prevent the payment of interest or discount due thereon. Should the dispute be resolved in the debtor's favor, the suspension will be immediately lifted.

(d) During the review period, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will continue to accrue.
