
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 204 - RULES RELATING TO DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Salary Offset
##### ยง 204.40 Deductions.
###### Amount and duration of deductions.

(d)Debts must be collected in one lump sum where possible. If the employee demonstrates financial hardship to the Commission's satisfaction or the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of the indebted employee's current disposable pay, collection must be made in installments over a period not greater than the anticipated period of active employment, except as provided in Section 34b, Employee Response.

(1) Installment deductions will be made over the shortest period possible. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay.

(2) The amount deducted for any period will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. Installment payment of less than $100 per pay period will he accepted only in the most unusual circumstances.

(3) Offset deductions from final salary and/or lump-sum leave payment. Such an offset deduction may exceed 15 percent of an employee's final salary and/or lump-sum leave payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716, 64 CG 907.

(e) Interest, penalties and administrative costs on debts under this part will be assessed and/or waived according to the provisions of 31 CFR 901.9.
