
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 204 - RULES RELATING TO DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Salary Offset
##### ยง 204.43 Coordinating offset with another federal agency.
###### Responsibility of the Commission as the Creditor Agency.

(a)When possible, salary offset through the centralized administrative offset procedures in 5 CFR 550.1108 shall be attempted before applying the procedures in this section. If centralized administrative offset is not possible, the Commission shall request recovery from the current paying agency. Upon completion of the procedures established in these regulations and pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, 5 CFR 550.1109 the Commission must:

(1) Certify, in writing, that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued and that the Commission's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by OPM.

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the Commission also must advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment, and if the Commission wishes, the number and the commencing date of the installments (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required).

(3) Advise the paying agency of the actions taken pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken (unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the paying agency).

(4) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(4), the Commission must submit a debt claim containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable, to the employee's paying agency.

(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the Commission must submit its debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection as provided in 5 CFR 550.1104(l). Pursuant to 5 CFR 1101, the paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the creditor agency and employee. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the paying agency has fully complied with the provisions of this section. The Commission must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.

(6) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Commission may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801) or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt (See 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS).

(7) When an employee transfers to another paying agency, the Commission shall not repeat the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and subpart B of this part to resume the collection. The Commission must review the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency. The Commission must submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed.
