
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 210 - FORM AND CONTENT OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
#### Registered Investment Companies and Business Development Companies
##### § 210.6-11 Financial statements of funds acquired or to be acquired.
###### Periods to be presented.

(b)(1) If securities are being registered to be offered to the security holders of the fund to be acquired, the financial statements specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 or § 210.3-18 for the fund to be acquired and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be filed, except as provided otherwise for filings on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter). The financial statements covering the fiscal year must be audited except as provided in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) with respect to certain proxy statements or in registration statements filed on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter).

(2) In all cases not specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, financial statements of the fund acquired or to be acquired for the periods specified in this paragraph (b)(2) or such shorter period as the fund has been in existence and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be filed. Whether such financial statements and supplemental information are to be filed must be determined using the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B) as follows:

(i) If none of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, are satisfied, the financial statements and supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section are not required.

(ii) If any of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, are satisfied, the financial statements of the acquired fund must be filed. If the acquired fund is subject to § 210.3-18, then the financial statements for the periods described therein must be filed. For all other acquired funds, the financial statements for the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period must be filed. The registrant must also provide the supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) If the aggregate impact of funds acquired or to be acquired since the date of the most recent audited balance sheet filed for the registrant, for which financial statements are not required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, satisfies any of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 50 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, the registrant must provide financial statements for any fund acquired or to be acquired for which financial statements are not yet required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. If any of the acquired funds are subject to § 210.3-18, then the financial statements for the periods described therein must be filed. For any other acquired funds, the financial statements for the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period must be filed. The registrant must also provide the supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section for such funds.

(3) The determination must be made by comparing the most recent annual financial statement of each such fund, or for acquisitions each group of related funds on a combined basis, to the registrant's most recent annual financial statements filed at or prior to the date of acquisition. However, the determination may be made by using pro forma amounts as calculated by the registrant for the periods specified in § 210.1-02(w)(2) that only give effect to an acquisition consummated after the latest fiscal year-end for which the registrant's financial statements are required to be filed when the registrant has filed audited financial statements of such acquired fund and provided the supplemental financial information for the periods required by this section.

(4) Separate financial statements of the acquired fund and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section need only to be filed once and not included in any subsequent filing or shareholder report.
