
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 210 - FORM AND CONTENT OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
#### Interim Financial Statements
##### § 210.10-01 Interim financial statements.
###### Other instructions as to content.

(b)The following additional instructions shall be applicable for purposes of preparing interim financial statements:

(1) Summarized statement of comprehensive income information shall be given separately as to each subsidiary not consolidated or 50 percent or less owned persons or as to each group of such subsidiaries or fifty percent or less owned persons for which separate individual or group statements would otherwise be required for annual periods. Such summarized information, however, need not be furnished for any such unconsolidated subsidiary or person which would not be required pursuant to § 240.13a-13 or § 240.15d-13 of this chapter to file quarterly financial information with the Commission if it were a registrant.

(2) The basis of the earnings per share computation shall be stated together with the number of shares used in the computation.

(3) If, during the most recent interim period presented, the registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a combination between entities under common control, supplemental disclosure of the separate results of the combined entities for periods prior to the combination shall be given, with appropriate explanations.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) For filings on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308(a) of this chapter), a letter from the registrant's independent accountant shall be filed as an exhibit (in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR 229.601 (Item 601 of Regulation S-K)) in the first Form 10-Q after the date of an accounting change indicating whether or not the change is to an alternative principle which, in the accountant's judgment, is preferable under the circumstances; except that no letter from the accountant need be filed when the change is made in response to a standard adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that requires such change.

(7) Any material retroactive prior period adjustment made during any period covered by the interim financial statements shall be disclosed, together with the effect thereof upon net income-total and per share-of any prior period included and upon the balance of retained earnings. If results of operations for any period presented have been adjusted retroactively by such an item subsequent to the initial reporting of such period, similar disclosure of the effect of the change shall be made.

(8) Any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a statement to that effect shall be made; otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring adjustments entering into the determination of the results shown.

(9) The requirements of § 210.3-10 are applicable to financial statements for a subsidiary of the registrant that issues securities guaranteed by the registrant or guarantees securities issued by the registrant. Disclosures about guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered must be presented as required by § 210.13-01.

(10) Disclosures about a registrant's affiliates whose securities collateralize any class of securities registered or being registered and the related collateral arrangement must be presented as required by § 210.13-02.
