
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 210 - FORM AND CONTENT OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
#### Pro Forma Financial Information
##### ยง 210.11-02 Preparation requirements.
###### Transaction Accounting Adjustments.

(i)(A) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed balance sheet the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) or, as applicable, International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS-IASB). Calculate pro forma adjustments using the measurement date and method prescribed by the applicable accounting standards. For a probable transaction, calculate pro forma adjustments using, and disclose, the most recent practicable date prior to the effective date (for registration statements), qualification date (for offering statements under 17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263 (Regulation A)), or the mail date (for proxy statements).

(B) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income the effects of the pro forma balance sheet adjustments in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) of this section assuming those adjustments were made as of the beginning of the fiscal year presented. Such adjustments must be made whether or not the pro forma balance sheet is presented pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the condition in ยง 210.11-01(a) that is met does not have a balance sheet effect, then depict the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable.
