
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 210 - FORM AND CONTENT OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
#### § 210.3-05 Financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired.
##### Periods to be presented.

(b)(1) If registering an offering of securities to the security holders of the business to be acquired, then the financial statements specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 must be filed for the business to be acquired, except as provided otherwise for filings on Form N-14, S-4, or F-4 (§ 239.23, § 239.25, or § 239.34 of this chapter). The financial statements covering fiscal years must be audited except as provided in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) with respect to certain proxy statements or in registration statements filed on Forms N-14, S-4, or F-4 (§ 239.23, § 239.25, or § 239.34 of this chapter).

(2) In all cases not specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, financial statements of the business acquired or to be acquired must be filed for the periods specified in this paragraph (b)(2) or such shorter period as the business has been in existence. Determine the periods for which such financial statements are to be filed using the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w), using the lower of the total revenue component or income or loss from continuing operations component for evaluating the income test condition, as follows:

(i) If none of the conditions exceeds 20 percent, financial statements are not required.

(ii) If any of the conditions exceeds 20 percent, but none exceed 40 percent, financial statements must be filed for at least the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.

(iii) If any of the conditions exceeds 40 percent, financial statements must be filed for at least the two most recent fiscal years and any interim periods specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.
