
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 227 - REGULATION CROWDFUNDING, GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
#### Subpart D - Funding Portal Regulation
##### ยง 227.400 Registration of funding portals.
###### Power of attorney.

(2)(i) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for registration pursuant to this section shall obtain a written consent and power of attorney appointing an agent in the United States, other than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings or other papers in any action under the federal securities laws. This consent and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident funding portal and the named agent(s) for service of process.

(ii) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for registration pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing its application on Form Funding Portal (ยง 249.2000 of this chapter), furnish to the Commission the name and address of its United States agent for service of process on Schedule C to the Form.

(iii) Any change of a nonresident funding portal's agent for service of process and any change of name or address of a nonresident funding portal's existing agent for service of process shall be communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the Schedule C to Form Funding Portal (ยง 249.2000 of this chapter).

(iv) Each nonresident funding portal must promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process if the nonresident funding portal discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the nonresident funding portal.

(v) Each nonresident funding portal must maintain, as part of its books and records, the written consent and power of attorney identified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
