
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.400 - Management and Certain Security Holders
##### ยง 229.408 (Item 408) Insider trading arrangements and policies.

(a)(1) Disclose whether, during the registrant's last fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report), any director or officer (as defined in ยง 240.16a-1(f) of this chapter) adopted or terminated:

(i) Any contract, instruction or written plan for the purchase or sale of securities of the registrant intended to satisfy the affirmative defense conditions of Rule 10b5-1(c) (ยง 240.10b5-1(c) of this chapter) (a "Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement"); and/or

(ii) Any "non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement" as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Identify whether the trading arrangement is intended to satisfy the affirmative defense of Rule 10b5-1(c), and provide a description of the material terms, other than terms with respect to the price at which the individual executing the Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement or non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement is authorized to trade, such as:

(A) The name and title of the director or officer;

(B) The date on which the director or officer adopted or terminated the trading arrangement;

(C) The duration of the trading arrangement; and

(D) The aggregate number of securities to be purchased or sold pursuant to the trading arrangement.

(3) The disclosure provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must be provided in an Interactive Data File as required by 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.

(b)(1) Disclose whether the registrant has adopted insider trading policies and procedures governing the purchase, sale, and/or other dispositions of the registrant's securities by directors, officers and employees, or the registrant itself, that are reasonably designed to promote compliance with insider trading laws, rules and regulations, and any listing standards applicable to the registrant. If the registrant has not adopted such policies and procedures, explain why it has not done so.

(2) If the registrant has adopted insider trading policies and procedures, the registrant must file such policies and procedures as an exhibit. If all of the registrant's insider trading policies and procedures are included in its code of ethics (as defined in 17 CFR 229.406(b)) and the code of ethics is filed as an exhibit pursuant to 17 CFR 229.406(c)(1), that would satisfy the exhibit requirement of this paragraph.

(3) The disclosure provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be provided in an Interactive Data File as required by 17 CFR 232.405 in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
