
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1100 - Asset-Backed Securities (Regulation AB)
##### ยง 229.1109 (Item 1109) Trustees and other transaction parties.
###### Asset representations reviewer.

(b)Provide the following for each asset representations reviewer:

(1) State the asset representations reviewer's name and describe its form of organization.

(2) Describe to what extent the asset representations reviewer has had prior experience serving as an asset representations reviewer for asset-backed securities transactions involving similar pool assets.

(3) Describe the asset representations reviewer's duties and responsibilities regarding the asset-backed securities under the governing documents and under applicable law. In addition, describe any actions required of the asset representations reviewer, including whether notices are required to investors, rating agencies or other third parties, and any required percentage of a class or classes of asset-backed securities that is needed to require the asset representations reviewer to take action.

(4) Disclose the manner and amount in which the asset representations reviewer is compensated.

(5) Describe any limitations on the asset representations reviewer's liability under the transaction agreements regarding the asset-backed securities transaction.

(6) Describe any indemnification provisions that entitle the asset representations reviewer to be indemnified from the cash flow that otherwise would be used to pay holders of the asset-backed securities.

(7) Describe any contractual provisions or understandings regarding the asset representations reviewer's removal, replacement or resignation, as well as how the expenses associated with changing from one asset representations reviewer to another asset representations reviewer will be paid.
