
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1100 - Asset-Backed Securities (Regulation AB)
##### § 229.1111 (Item 1111) Pool assets.
###### Asset-level information.

(h)(1) If the asset pool includes residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, automobile loans, automobile leases, debt securities or resecuritizations of asset-backed securities, provide asset-level information for each asset or security in the pool in the manner specified in Schedule AL (§ 229.1125).

(2) File the disclosures as an Asset Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter) in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual. See § 232.301 of this chapter.

(3) File the Asset Data File as an exhibit to Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter) in accordance with Item 601(b)(102) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601(b)(102)).

(4) A registrant may provide additional explanatory disclosure related to an Asset Data File by filing an asset related document as an exhibit to Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter) in accordance with Item 601(b)(103) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601(b)(103)).

(5) A registrant may provide other asset-level information in addition to the information required by Schedule AL (§ 229.1125) by filing an asset related document as an exhibit to Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter) in accordance with Item 601(b)(103) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601(b)(103)). The asset related document(s) must contain the definitions and formulas for each additional data point and the related tagged data and may contain explanatory disclosure about each additional data point.
