
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1300 - Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
##### § 229.1302 (Item 1302) Qualified person, technical report summary, and technical studies.
###### information

(a)(1) A registrant's disclosure of exploration results, mineral resources, or mineral reserves, as required by §§ 229.1303 and 229.1304, must be based on and accurately reflect information and supporting documentation prepared by a qualified person, as defined in § 229.1300. As used in this section, the termincludes the findings and conclusions of a qualified person relating to exploration results or estimates of mineral resources or mineral reserves.

(2) The registrant is responsible for determining that the person meets the qualifications specified under the definition of qualified person in § 229.1300, and that the disclosure in the registrant's filing accurately reflects the information provided by the qualified person.

(3) If a registrant has relied on more than one qualified person to prepare the information and documentation supporting its disclosure of exploration results, mineral resources, or mineral reserves, the registrant's responsibilities as specified in this paragraph (a) pertain to each qualified person.

(b)(1) The registrant must obtain a dated and signed technical report summary from the qualified person that, pursuant to § 229.601(b)(96), identifies and summarizes the information reviewed and conclusions reached by the qualified person about the registrant's mineral resources or mineral reserves determined to be on each material property. At its election, the registrant may also obtain a dated and signed technical report summary from the qualified person that, pursuant to § 229.601(b)(96), identifies and summarizes the information reviewed and conclusions reached by the qualified person about the registrant's exploration results.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if more than one qualified person has prepared the technical report summary, each qualified person must date and sign the technical report summary. The qualified person's signature must comply with § 230.402(e) or § 240.12b-11(d) of this chapter. The technical report summary must also clearly delineate the section or sections of the summary prepared by each qualified person.

(ii) A third-party firm comprising mining experts, such as professional geologists or mining engineers, may date and sign the technical report summary instead of, and without naming, its employee, member or other affiliated person who prepared the technical report summary.

(2)(i) The registrant must file the technical report summary as an exhibit to the relevant registration statement or other Commission filing when disclosing for the first time mineral reserves or mineral resources or when there is a material change in the mineral reserves or mineral resources from the last technical report summary filed for the property.

(ii) If a registrant files a technical report summary to support the disclosure of exploration results, it must also file a technical report summary when there is a material change in the exploration results from the last technical report summary filed for the property. In each instance, the registrant must file the technical report summary as an exhibit to the relevant Commission filing.

(3)(i) A registrant that has a royalty, streaming, or other similar right is not required to submit a separate technical report summary for a property that is covered by a current technical report summary filed by the producing mining registrant. In that situation, the registrant holding the royalty, streaming, or other similar right should refer to the producing registrant's previously filed technical report summary in its filing with the Commission. Such a reference will not be deemed to incorporate by reference, pursuant to § 230.411 or § 240.12b-23 of this chapter, the previously filed technical report summary into the royalty company's or other similar company's filing absent an express statement to so incorporate by reference the previously filed technical report summary.

(ii) A registrant that has a royalty, streaming, or other similar right is not required to file a technical report summary for an underlying property if the registrant lacks access to the technical report summary because:

(A) Obtaining the information would result in an unreasonable burden or expense; or

(B) It requested the technical report summary from the owner, operator, or other person possessing the technical report summary, who is not affiliated with the registrant, and who denied the request.

(4)(i) The registrant must obtain the written consent of the qualified person to the use of the qualified person's name, or any quotation from, or summarization of, the technical report summary in the relevant registration statement or report, and to the filing of the technical report summary as an exhibit to the registration statement or report.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, if more than one qualified person has prepared the technical report summary, the registrant must obtain the written consent required by this section from each qualified person pertaining to the particular section or sections of the technical report summary prepared by each qualified person.

(iii) If, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a third-party firm has signed the technical report summary, the third-party firm must provide the written consent. If a qualified person is an employee or person affiliated with the registrant, the qualified person must provide the written consent on an individual basis.

(iv) For Securities Act filings, the registrant must file the written consent as an exhibit to the registration statement pursuant to §§ 230.436 and 230.601(b)(23) of this chapter. For Exchange Act reports, the registrant is not required to file the written consent obtained from the qualified person, but should retain the written consent for as long as it is relying on the qualified person's information and supporting documentation for its current estimates regarding mineral resources, mineral reserves, or exploration results.
