
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1300 - Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
##### ยง 229.1302 (Item 1302) Qualified person, technical report summary, and technical studies.
###### 2

() Should be able to defend the basis of this expectation before his or her peers.

(iv) The qualified person should refer to Table 1 to paragraph (d) of this section for the assumptions permitted to be made when preparing the initial assessment.

(2) A qualified person must include cut-off grade estimation, based on assumed unit costs for surface or underground operations and estimated mineral prices, in the initial assessment. To estimate mineral prices, the qualified person must use a price for each commodity that provides a reasonable basis for establishing the prospects of economic extraction for mineral resources. The qualified person must disclose the price used and explain, with particularity, his or her reasons for using the selected price, including the material assumptions underlying the selection. This explanation must include disclosure of the time frame used to estimate the commodity price and unit costs for cut-off grade estimation and the reasons justifying the selection of that time frame. The qualified person may use a price set by contractual arrangement, provided that such price is reasonable, and the qualified person discloses that he or she is using a contractual price when disclosing the price used. The selected price required by this section and all material assumptions underlying it must be current as of the end of the registrant's most recently completed fiscal year.

(3) The qualified person must provide a qualitative assessment of all relevant technical and economic factors likely to influence the prospect of economic extraction to establish economic potential and justify why he or she believes that all issues can be resolved with further exploration and analysis. As provided by Table 1 to paragraph (d) of this section, those factors include, but are not limited to, to the extent material:
