
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1300 - Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
##### ยง 229.1302 (Item 1302) Qualified person, technical report summary, and technical studies.
###### mineral reserves

(i) The termdoes not necessarily require that extraction facilities are in place or operational, that the company has obtained all necessary permits or that the company has entered into sales contracts for the sale of mined products. It does require, however, that the qualified person has, after reasonable investigation, not identified any obstacles to obtaining permits and entering into the necessary sales contracts, and reasonably believes that the chances of obtaining such approvals and contracts in a timely manner are highly likely.

(ii) In certain circumstances, the determination of mineral reserves may require the completion of at least a preliminary market study, as defined in ยง 229.1300, in the context of a pre-feasibility study, or a final market study, as defined in ยง 229.1300, in the context of a feasibility study, to support the qualified person's conclusions about the chances of obtaining revenues from sales. For example, a preliminary or final market study would be required where the mine's product cannot be traded on an exchange, there is no other established market for the product, and no sales contract exists. When assessing mineral reserves, the qualified person must take into account the potential adverse impacts, if any, from any unresolved material matter on which extraction is contingent and which is dependent on a third party.

(4) For both a pre-feasibility and feasibility study, a qualified person must use a price for each commodity that provides a reasonable basis for establishing that the project is economically viable. The qualified person must disclose the price used and explain, with particularity, his or her reasons for using the selected price, including the material assumptions underlying the selection. This explanation must include disclosure of the time frame used to estimate the price and costs and the reasons justifying the selection of that time frame. The qualified person may use a price set by contractual arrangement, provided that such price is reasonable, and the qualified person discloses that he or she is using a contractual price when disclosing the price used. The selected price required by this section and all material assumptions underlying it must be current as of the end of the registrant's most recently completed fiscal year.

(5) A pre-feasibility study must include an economic analysis that supports the property's economic viability as assessed by a detailed discounted cash flow analysis or other similar financial analysis. The economic analysis must describe in detail applicable taxes and provide an estimate of revenues. The qualified person must use a price for each commodity in the economic analysis that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section. As discussed in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, in certain situations, estimates of revenues must be based on at least a preliminary market study.

(6) The qualified person must exclude inferred mineral resources from the pre-feasibility study's demonstration of economic viability in support of a disclosure of a mineral reserve.

(7) Factors to be considered in a pre-feasibility study are typically the same as those required for a final feasibility study, but considered at a lower level of detail or at an earlier stage of development. The list of factors is not exclusive. For example, as provided in Table 1 to paragraph (d) of this section, a pre-feasibility study must define, analyze or otherwise address in detail, to the extent material:
