
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1300 - Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
##### ยง 229.1303 (Item 1303) Summary disclosure.
###### by geographic area

(i) The termmeans by individual country, regions of a country, state, groups of states, mining district, or other political units, to the extent material to and necessary for an investor's understanding of a registrant's mining operations.

(ii) All disclosure of mineral resources by the registrant must be exclusive of mineral reserves.

(iii) All disclosure of mineral resources and reserves must be only for the portion of the resources or reserves attributable to the registrant's interest in the property.

(iv) Each mineral resource and reserve estimate must be based on a reasonable and justifiable price selected by a qualified person pursuant to ยง 229.1302(d) or (e), which provides a reasonable basis for establishing the prospects of economic extraction for mineral resources, and is the expected price for mineral reserves.

(v) Each mineral resource and reserve estimate called for in Tables 1 and 2 to paragraph (b) of this section must be based on a specific point of reference selected by a qualified person. The registrant must disclose the selected point of reference for each of Tables 1 and 2 to paragraph (b) of this section.

(vi) The registrant may modify the tabular formats in Tables 1 and 2 to paragraph (b) of this section for ease of presentation or to add information.

(vii) All material assumptions and information pertaining to the summary disclosure of a registrant's mineral resources and mineral reserves required by this section, including material assumptions related to price estimates, must be current as of the end of the registrant's most recently completed fiscal year.
