
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1300 - Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
##### ยง 229.1304 (Item 1304) Individual property disclosure.
###### e.g.,

(2) All material assumptions and information pertaining to the disclosure of a registrant's mineral resources and mineral reserves required by paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, including material assumptions relating to all modifying factors, price estimates, and scientific and technical information (sampling data, estimation assumptions and methods), must be current as of the end of the registrant's most recently completed fiscal year. To the extent that the registrant is not filing a technical report summary but instead is basing the required disclosure upon a previously filed report, that report must also be current in these material respects. If the previously filed report is not current in these material respects, the registrant must file a revised or new technical report summary from a qualified person, in compliance with ยง 229.601(b)(96) (Item 601(b)(96) of Regulation S-K), that supports the registrant's mining property disclosures.

(3) Regarding the disclosure required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, whether a change in mineral resources or mineral reserves is material is based on all facts and circumstances, both quantitative and qualitative.

(g)(1) If disclosing exploration activity for any material property specified in paragraph (a) of this section for the most recently completed fiscal year, provide a summary that describes the sampling methods used, and, for each sampling method used, disclose the number of samples, the total size or length of the samples, and the total number of assays.

(2) If disclosing exploration results for any material property specified in paragraph (a) of this section for the most recently completed fiscal year, provide a summary that, for each property, identifies the hole, trench or other sample that generated the exploration results, describes the length, lithology, and key geologic properties of the exploration results, and includes a brief discussion of the exploration results' context and relevance. If the summary only includes results from selected samples and intersections, it should be accompanied with a discussion of the context and justification for excluding other results.

(3) The information disclosed under this paragraph (g) may be presented in either narrative or tabular format.

(4) A registrant must disclose exploration results and related exploration activity for a material property under this section if they are material to investors. When determining whether exploration results and related exploration activity are material, the registrant should consider all relevant facts and circumstances, such as the importance of the exploration results in assessing the value of a material property or in deciding whether to develop the property, and the particular stage of the property.

(5) A registrant may disclose an exploration target when discussing exploration results or exploration activity related to a material property as long as the disclosure is in compliance with the requirements of ยง 229.1302(c).

(6)(i) If the registrant is disclosing exploration results, but has not previously disclosed such results in a filing with the Commission, or is disclosing material changes to its previously disclosed exploration results, it must provide sufficient information to allow for an accurate understanding of the significance of the exploration results. The registrant must include information such as exploration context, type and method of sampling, sampling intervals and methods, relevant sample locations, distribution, dimensions, and relative location of all relevant assay and physical data, data aggregation methods, land tenure status, and any additional material information that may be necessary to make the required disclosure concerning the registrant's exploration results not misleading. If electing to file a technical report summary, the registrant must cite corresponding sections of the technical report summary, which must be filed as an exhibit pursuant to ยง 229.1302(b).

(ii) Whether a change in exploration results is material is based on all facts and circumstances, both quantitative and qualitative.

(iii) A change in exploration results that significantly alters the potential of the subject deposit is considered material.

(h) A report containing one or more estimates of the quantity, grade, or metal or mineral content of a deposit or exploration results that a registrant has not verified as a current estimate of mineral resources, mineral reserves, or exploration results, and which was prepared before the registrant acquired, or entered into an agreement to acquire, an interest in the property that contains the deposit, is not considered current and cannot be filed in support of disclosure. Notwithstanding this prohibition, a registrant may include such an estimate in a Commission filing that pertains to a merger, acquisition, or business combination if the registrant is unable to update the estimate prior to the completion of the relevant transaction. In that event, when referring to the estimate, the registrant must disclose the source and date of the estimate, and state that a qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the estimate as a current estimate of mineral resources, mineral reserves, or exploration results and that the registrant is not treating the estimate as a current estimate of mineral resources, mineral reserves, or exploration results.
