
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1400 - Disclosure by Bank and Savings and Loan Registrants
##### ยง 229.1405 (Item 1405) Allowance for Credit Losses.

(a) For each reported period, disclose the following credit ratios, along with each component of the ratio's calculation:

(1) Allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding at each period end.

(2) Nonaccrual loans to total loans outstanding at each period end.

(3) Allowance for credit losses to nonaccrual loans at each period end.

(4) Net charge-offs during the period to average loans outstanding during the period. Provide this ratio for each loan category for which disclosure is required in the financial statements.

(b) Provide a discussion of the factors that drove material changes in the ratios in (a) above, or the related components, during the periods presented.

(c) At the end of each reported period, provide a breakdown of the allowance for credit losses by each loan category for which disclosure is required by U.S. GAAP in the following format:

1. A foreign private issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB does not need to provide disclosure responsive to Items 1405(a)(2), (a)(3) and Item 1405(c).

2. Net charge-offs must be based on current period net charge-offs for each loan category.
