
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 229 - STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 - REGULATION S-K
#### Subpart 229.1400 - Disclosure by Bank and Savings and Loan Registrants
##### ยง 229.1406 (Item 1406) Deposits.

(a) For each reported period, present separately the average amount of and the average rate paid on each of the following deposit categories that are in excess of 10 percent of average total deposits:

(1) Noninterest bearing demand deposits.

(2) Interest-bearing demand deposits.

(3) Savings deposits.

(4) Time deposits.

(5) Other.

(b) If the registrant believes other categories more appropriately describe the nature of the deposits, those categories may be used.

(c) If material, separately present domestic deposits and foreign deposits for all amounts reported under (a) above. Foreign deposits as used here means deposits from depositors who are not in the registrant's country of domicile.

(d) If material, the registrant must disclose separately the aggregate amount of deposits by foreign depositors in domestic offices. Registrants are not required to identify the nationality of the depositors.

(e) As of the end of each reported period, present separately the amount of uninsured deposits. For registrants that are U.S. federally insured depository institutions, uninsured deposits are the portion of deposit accounts in U.S. offices that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit or similar state deposit insurance regime, and amounts in any other uninsured investment or deposit accounts that are classified as deposits and not subject to any federal or state deposit insurance regime. Foreign banking or savings and loan registrants must disclose the definition of uninsured deposits appropriate for their country of domicile. All registrants should consider the methodologies and assumptions used for regulatory reporting of uninsured deposits, to the extent applicable, for disclosure of uninsured deposits. To the extent it is not reasonably practicable to provide a precise measure of uninsured deposits at the reported period, the registrant must disclose that the amounts are based on estimated amounts of uninsured deposits as of the reported period. Such estimates must be based on the same methodologies and assumptions used for the applicable bank or savings and loan registrant's regulatory reporting requirements.

(f) As of the end of the latest reported period, state the amount outstanding of:

(1) The portion of U.S. time deposits, by account, that are in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit or similar state deposit insurance regime; and

(2) Time deposits that are otherwise uninsured (including for example, U.S. time deposits in uninsured accounts, non-U.S. time deposits in uninsured accounts, or non-U.S. time deposits in excess of any country-specific insurance fund limit), by time remaining until maturity of:

(i) 3 months or less;

(ii) Over 3 through 6 months;

(iii) Over 6 through 12 months; and

(iv) Over 12 months.
