
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 230 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### amendments; withdrawals
##### § 230.472 Filing of amendments; number of copies.

(a) Except for telegraphic amendments filed pursuant to Rule 473 (§ 230.473), there shall be filed with the Commission three complete, unmarked copies of every amendment, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of the amendment, and eight additional copies of such amendment at least five of which shall be marked to indicate clearly and precisely, by underlining or in some other appropriate manner, the changes effected in the registration statement by the amendment. Where the amendment to the registration statement incorporates into the prospectus documents which are required to be delivered with the prospectus in lieu of prospectus presentation, the eight additional copies shall be accompanied by eight copies of such documents. No other exhibits are required to accompany such additional copies.

(b) Every amendment which relates to a prospectus shall include copies of the prospectus as amended. Each such copy of the amended prospectus shall be accompanied by a copy of the cross reference sheet required by Rule 481(a) (§ 230.481(a)), where applicable, if the amendment of the prospectus resulted in any change in the accuracy of the cross reference sheet previously filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, only copies of the changed pages of the prospectus, and the cross reference sheet if amended, need be included in an amendment filed pursuant to an undertaking referred to in Item 512(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(d) of this chapter).

(c) Every amendment of a financial statement which is not included in the prospectus shall include copies of the financial statement as amended. Every amendment relating to a certified financial statement shall include the consent of the certifying accountant to the use of his certificate in connection with the amended financial statement in the registration statement or prospectus and to being named as having certified such financial statement.

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if a registration statement filed on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter) is amended, there shall be filed with the Commission three complete, unmarked copies of every amendment, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of the amendment. Three additional, unmarked copies of such amendments shall be furnished to the Commission. No exhibits are required to accompany the additional copies of amendments to registration statements filed on Form S-8.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if a post-effective amendment is filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) and Rule 110(d) (§ 230.110(d)), one copy of the complete post-effective amendment, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as a part thereof shall be filed with the Commission. Such copy should not be bound and may contain facsimile versions of manual signatures in accordance with Rule 402(e) (§ 230.402(e)).
