
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 230 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### registration by foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof
##### ยง 230.498 Summary Prospectuses for open-end management investment companies.
###### Cover page or beginning of Summary Prospectus.

(1)Include on the cover page of the Summary Prospectus or at the beginning of the Summary Prospectus:

(i) The Fund's name and the Class or Classes, if any, to which the Summary Prospectus relates.

(ii) The exchange ticker symbol of the Fund's shares or, if the Summary Prospectus relates to one or more Classes of the Fund's shares, adjacent to each such Class, the exchange ticker symbol of such Class of the Fund's shares. If the Fund is an Exchange-Traded Fund, also identify the principal U.S. market or markets on which the Fund shares are traded.

(iii) A statement identifying the document as a "Summary Prospectus."

(iv) The approximate date of the Summary Prospectus's first use.

(v) The following legend:

Before you invest, you may want to review the Fund's prospectus, which contains more information about the Fund and its risks. You can find the Fund's prospectus, reports to shareholders, and other information about the Fund online at [______]. You can also get this information at no cost by calling [______] or by sending an email request to [______].

(A) The legend must provide a website address, other than the address of the Commission's electronic filing system; toll free (or collect) telephone number; and email address that investors can use to obtain the Statutory Prospectus and other information. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the Statutory Prospectus and other materials that are required to be accessible under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or other section of the website on which the materials are posted. The website could be a central site with prominent links to each document. The legend may indicate, if applicable, that the Statutory Prospectus and other information are available from a financial intermediary (such as a broker-dealer or bank) through which shares of the Fund may be purchased or sold. If a Fund relies on ยง 270.30e-3 of this chapter to transmit a report, the legend must also include the website address required by ยง 270.30e-3(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter if different from the website address required by this paragraph (b)(1)(v)(A).
