
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 230 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### registration by foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof
##### ยง 230.498A Summary Prospectuses for separate accounts offering variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts.
###### Investor.gov.

Additional information about certain investment products, including [variable annuities/variable life insurance contracts], has been prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission's staff and is available at

(A) A Registrant may modify the legend so long as the modified legend contains comparable information.

(B) The legend must provide a website address, other than the address of the Commission's electronic filing system; toll-free telephone number; and email address that investors can use to obtain the Statutory Prospectus and other materials, request other information about the Contract, and make investor inquiries. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the Statutory Prospectus and other materials that are required to be accessible under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or other section of the website on which the materials are posted. The website could be a central site with prominent links to each document. The legend may indicate, if applicable, that the Statutory Prospectus and other information are available from a financial intermediary (such as a broker-dealer) through which the Contract may be purchased or sold. If a Fund relies on ยง 270.30e-3 of this chapter to transmit a report, the legend must also include the website address required by ยง 270.30e-3(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter if different from the website address required by this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(B).

(C) The paragraph of the legend regarding cancellation of the Contract may be omitted if not applicable. If this paragraph is included in the legend, the paragraph must be presented in a manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to that paragraph.

(D) The legend may include instructions describing how a shareholder can elect to receive prospectuses or other documents and communications by electronic delivery.
