
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 3 - REGISTRATION
#### Subpart C - Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Registration
##### § 3.60 Procedure to deny, condition, suspend, revoke or place restrictions upon registration pursuant to sections 8a(2), 8a(3) and 8a(4) of the Act.
###### Oral Presentation.

(d)Within thirty days of the date the Division of Enforcement files its reply in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section to the applicant's or registrant's response and further submission, if any, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order:

(1) If the Administrative Law Judge finds, based on the motion for summary disposition, that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, granting, denying, suspending, or revoking the registration of an applicant or registrant, or dismissing the notice issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and such order shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section; or

(2) Notifying the parties of a time and place of hearing. At such hearing, the parties shall be limited to presentation of witnesses and documents listed in previous filings except, for good cause shown, the parties may request that the witness and document lists be supplemented for purposes of rebuttal. Such oral hearing shall be conducted in accordance with §§ 10.61-10.81 and 10.83 of this chapter. The Administrative Law Judge shall file an initial decision after completion of the oral hearing in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(3) Upon notice that the Administrative Law Judge has concluded that an oral presentation is appropriate, the parties may elect to participate by telephone in accordance with the terms set forth in § 12.209(b) of this chapter. To effect such an election, the party shall file a notice with the Proceedings Clerk and serve a copy on all opposing parties within fifteen days of the date the Administrative Law Judge's notice is served. The filing of an election to participate by telephone will be deemed a waiver of the party's right to a full oral hearing on the parties' material disputes of fact. The Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a telephonic hearing only if all parties to the proceeding elect such a procedure. The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct such a hearing in accordance with § 12.209(b) of this chapter. Following the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue a written decision in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
