
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 3 - REGISTRATION
#### Subpart E - Delegation and Reservation of Authority
##### ยง 3.75 Delegation and reservation of authority.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight or his or her designee the authority to grant or deny requests filed pursuant to ยง 3.12(g). The Director of the Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated to him pursuant to ยง 3.12(g). The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as it orders otherwise, the authority to perform all functions specified in subparts B through D of this part to the persons authorized to perform them thereunder.

(b) Nothing in this subpart shall prevent the Commission from exercising the authority delegated therein.

(c) The Commission reserves to itself the decision in any case to proceed by order, upon notice and hearing, to deny, suspend, condition or restrict the registration of any person pursuant to sections 8a(2), 8a(3) and 8a(4) of the Act.

(d) Nothing in this part shall affect the authority of the Commission to institute a proceeding pursuant to section 6(c) of the Act.

(e) The Commission may, by order of delegation, authorize a futures association registered pursuant to section 17 of the Act to perform all or any portion of the registration functions under subparts B through D in accordance with rules or procedures adopted by such futures association and submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 17(j) of the Act and subject to the applicable provisions of the Act.
