
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter I - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 3 - REGISTRATION
#### Subpart E - Delegation and Reservation of Authority
##### ยง 3.75 Delegation and reservation of authority.
###### Section 8a(3)(M).

Section 8a(3)(M) authorizes the Commission to affect the registration of any person if "there is other good cause". Specifically, the Commission interprets paragraph (M) to authorize the Commission to refuse to register such person in any new capacity, if such person, or any principal of such person, is the subject of an administrative proceeding brought by the Commission to revoke the existing registration of such person in any other capacity, pending a final decision in such administrative proceeding. The Commission believes it would be inconsistent to register a person in a new capacity, thereby determining that such person is qualified to be registered, while simultaneously seeking to revoke such person's registration in a different capacity because such person's conduct disqualifies him from registration.

Similarly, the Commission interprets paragraph (M) to authorize the Commission to refuse to register, register conditionally or otherwise affect the registration of any person if such person has consented, in connection with an agreement of settlement with a contract market, a registered futures association, or any other self-regulatory organization, to comply with an undertaking to withdraw all forms of existing or pending registration and/or not to apply for registration with the National Futures Association or the Commission in any capacity. Such person's effort to violate his or her prior undertaking to withdraw from and/or not to apply for registration shall be considered to constitute "other good cause" under paragraph (M). The Commission believes that allowing such a person to be registered would be inappropriate and inconsistent with the intention of parties to the prior settlement agreement. The failure to withdraw or the attempt to register in the face of such an undertaking would indicate the lack of fair and honest dealing which the Commission believes constitutes "other good cause" for denying, revoking or conditioning registration under the Act. The Commission also believes that allowing registration in such a situation would be inconsistent with both Section 8a(2)(A), which authorizes the Commission to refuse to register, to register conditionally, or to revoke, suspend or place restrictions upon the registration of any person if such person's prior registration has been suspended (and the period of such suspension has not expired) or has been revoked, and Section 8a(3)(J), which authorizes the Commission to refuse to register or to register conditionally any person if he or she is subject to an outstanding order denying, suspending, or expelling such person from membership in a contract market, a registered futures association, or any other self-regulatory organization.

Good cause to affect a person's registration also exists: (1) If the operations of such person disrupt or would tend to disrupt orderly market conditions, or cause or would tend to cause sudden or unreasonable fluctuations or unwarranted changes in the price of commodities or contracts for future delivery of commodities or commodity options; (2) if such person has used or is using in its name a term such as "board of trade", "clearing corporation" or "exchange" in a misleading context, or uses any terms in its representations to the public which may indicate that the person is a contract market or a member of a contract market when such is not the case, or has used or is using a misleading name which would tend to suggest to the public that the person is affiliated with another person when that is not the case or that the person is engaged in a commodity-related business when the person is not in fact substantially so engaged, or has failed to disclose to the public an agency relationship with another person when such failure could mislead the public; (3) if such person is subject to an outstanding order denying, suspending or revoking the license of such person by a licensing authority, such as a state real estate or insurance commission; and (4) if such person has failed to answer the inquiries or requests for further information concerning an application for registration filed with the Commission.

This listing, of course, is not exclusive. In general, the Commission interprets paragraph (M) to authorize the Commission to affect the registration of any person if, as a result of any act or pattern of conduct attributable to such person, although never the subject of formal action or proceeding before either a court or governmental agency, such person's potential disregard of or inability to comply with the requirements of the Act or the rules, regulations or order thereunder, or such person's moral turpitude, or lack of honesty or financial responsibility is demonstrated to the Commission.

Any inability to deal fairly with the public and consistent with just and equitable principles of trade may render an applicant or registrant unfit for registration, given the high ethical standards which must prevail in the industry.

The Commission has further addressed "other good cause" under Section 8a(3)(M) of the Act in issuing guidance letters on assessing the fitness of floor brokers, floor traders or applicants in either category:

Dear Mr. Wilmouth: As you know, the Commission on June 26, 1997, approved for publication in thea Notice and Order concerning adverse registration actions by the National Futures Association ("NFA") with respect to registered floor brokers ("FBs"), registered floor traders ("FTs") and applicants for registration in either category. 62 Fed. Reg. 36050 (July 3, 1997). The Notice and Order authorized NFA to grant or to maintain, either with or without conditions or restrictions, FB or FT registration where NFA previously would have forwarded the case to the Commission for review of disciplinary history. The Commission has worked with its staff to determine which of the pending matters could efficiently be returned to NFA for handling, and such matters have been forwarded to NFA. The Commission will continue to accept or to act upon requests for exemption, and the Commission staff will consider requests for "no-action" opinions with respect to applicable registration requirements.

By this correspondence, the Commission is issuing guidance that provides NFA further direction on how it expects NFA to exercise its delegated power, based upon the experience of the Commission and the staff with the registration review process during the past three years. This guidance will help ensure that NFA exercises its delegated power in a manner consistent with Commission precedent.

In exercising its delegated authority, NFA, of course, needs to apply all of the provisions of Sections 8a(2) and (3) of the Commodity Exchange Act ("Act").In that regard, NFA should consider the matters in which the Commission has taken action in the past and endeavor to seek similar registration restrictions, conditions, suspensions, denials, or revocations under similar circumstances.

One of the areas in which NFA appears to have had the most uncertainty is with regard to previous self-regulatory organization ("SRO") disciplinary actions. Commission Rule 1.63provides clear guidelines for determining whether a person's history of "disciplinary offenses" should preclude service on SRO governing boards or committees.In determining whether to grant or to maintain, either with or without conditions or restrictions, FB or FT registration, NFA should, as an initial matter, apply the Rule 1.63(a)(6) criteria to those registered FBs, registered FTs and applicants for registration in either category. However, NFA should be acting based upon any such offenses that occurred within the previous five years, rather than the three years provided for in Rule 1.63(c). NFA should consider disciplinary actions taken by an SRO as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 no differently from disciplinary actions taken by an SRO in the futures industry as defined in Rule 1.3(ee).Application of the Rule 1.63 criteria, as modified, to these matters will aid NFA in making registration determinations that are reasonably consonant with Commission views.NFA should focus on the nature of the underlying conduct rather than the sanction imposed by an SRO. Thus, if a disciplinary action would not come within the coverage of Rule 1.63 but for the imposition of a short suspension of trading privileges (such as for a matter involving fighting, use of profane language or minor recordkeeping violations), NFA could exercise discretion, as has the Commission, not to institute a statutory disqualification case. On the other hand, conduct that falls clearly within the terms of Rule 1.63, such as violations of rules involving potential harm to customers of the exchange, should not be exempt from review simply because the exchange imposed a relatively minor sanction.

The Commission has treated the registration process and the SRO disciplinary process as separate matters involving separate considerations. The fact that the Commission has not pursued its own enforcement case in a particular situation does not necessarily mean that the Commission considers the situation to be a minor matter for which no registration sanctions are appropriate. Further, the Commission believes that it and NFA, entities with industry-wide perspective and responsibilities, are the appropriate bodies, rather than any individual exchange, to decide issues relating to registration status, which can affect a person's ability to function in the industry well beyond the jurisdiction of a particular exchange. Thus, NFA's role is in no way related to review of exchange sanctions for particular conduct, but rather it is the entirely separate task of determining whether an FB's or FT's conduct should impact his or her registration.

NFA also should look to Commission precedent in selecting conditions or restrictions to be imposed, such as a dual trading ban where a person has been involved in disciplinary offenses involving customer abuse. Where conditions or restrictions are imposed, or agreed upon, NFA also should follow Commission precedent, under which such conditions or restrictions generally have been imposed for a two-year period.

The Commission has required sponsorship for conditioned FBs and FTs when their disciplinary offenses have involved noncompetitive trading and fraud irrespective of the level of sanctions imposed by an SRO. Indeed, but for a sponsorship requirement there would be no one routinely watching and responsible for the activities of these registrants. Absent sponsorship, such FBs and FTs would only be subject to routine Commission and exchange surveillance. The Commission's rules are premised upon the judgment that requiring FTs and FBs to have sponsors to ensure their compliance with conditions is both appropriate and useful. See Rule 3.60(b)(2)(i).

A question has arisen whether, if NFA is required to prove up the underlying facts of an SRO disciplinary action, the exchanges can provide information on exchange disciplinary proceedings directly to NFA. Although Section 8c(a)(2) of the Act states that an exchange shall not disclose the evidence for a disciplinary action except to the person disciplined and to the Commission, Section 8a(10) of the Act allows the Commission to authorize any person to perform any portion of the registration functions under the Act, notwithstanding any other provision of law. The effective discharge of the delegated registration function requires NFA to have access to the exchange evidence. Thus, the Commission believes that Section 8a(10) may reasonably be interpreted to allow the disclosure of information from exchange disciplinary proceedings directly to NFA despite the provisions of Section 8c(a)(2).

Nothing in the Notice and Order affects the Commission's authority to review the granting of a registration application by NFA in the performance of Commission registration functions, including review of the sufficiency of conditions or restrictions imposed by NFA, to review the determination by NFA not to take action to affect an existing registration, or to take its own action to address a statutory disqualification. Moreover, the Commission Order contemplates that to allow for appropriate Commission oversight of NFA's exercise of this delegated authority, NFA will provide for the Commission's review quarterly schedules of all applicants cleared for registration and all registrants whose registrations are maintained without adverse action by NFA's Registration, Compliance, Legal Committee despite potential statutory disqualifications.

The Commission will continue to monitor NFA activities through periodic rule enforcement reviews, and NFA remains subject to the present requirement that it monitor compliance with the conditions and restrictions imposed on conditioned and restricted registrants.

Sincerely,

Dear Mr. Wilmouth:

In July 1997, the Commission issued a Notice and Order authorizing the National Futures Association ("NFA") to grant or to maintain, either with or without conditions or restrictions, floor broker ("FB") or floor trader ("FT") registration where NFA previously would have forwarded the case to the Commission for review of disciplinary history.By letter dated December 4, 1997 ("Guidance Letter"), the Commission provided further direction on how the Commission expected NFA to exercise its delegated power and to ensure that NFA exercised its delegated power in a manner consistent with Commission precedent.

The Commission has determined to revise the Guidance Letter. Specifically, the Commission is revising the portion of the Guidance Letter that addresses the use of exchange disciplinary actions as "other good cause" to affect FB and FT registrations. The Commission has made this determination following its own reconsideration of the issue and at the urging of industry members.
