
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 230 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### § 230.485 Effective date of post-effective amendments filed by certain registered investment companies.
##### Incomplete or inaccurate amendments; suspension of use of paragraph (b) of this section.

(c)(1) No amendment shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the amendment, it should appear to the Commission that the amendment may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date of the amendment is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of an amendment, the amendment shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.

(2) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (c)(2), suspend the ability of registrant to file a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission that a registrant which files a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section has not complied with the conditions of that paragraph. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(2) shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the registrant. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any post-effective amendment that may be filed after the suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Following this action by the Commission the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition.

(3) A registrant's ability to file a post-effective amendment, other than an amendment filed solely for purposes of submitting an Interactive Data File, under paragraph (b) of this section is automatically suspended if a registrant fails to submit any Interactive Data File as required by General Instruction C.3.(g) of §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), or General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6). A suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall become effective at such time as the registrant fails to submit an Interactive Data File as required by General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A, or General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4, or General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that is filed after the suspension becomes effective, but shall not apply to any post-effective amendment that was filed before the suspension became effective. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall terminate as soon as a registrant has submitted the Interactive Data File as required by General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4, or General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6.
