
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 230 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### ยง 230.486 Effective date of post-effective amendments and registration statements filed by certain closed-end management investment companies.
##### Incomplete or inaccurate amendments; suspension of use of paragraph (b) of this section.

(c)(1) No amendment or registration statement shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the amendment or registration statement, it should appear to the Commission that the amendment or registration statement may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date of the amendment or registration statement is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of an amendment or registration statement, the amendment or registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.

(2) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (c)(2), suspend the ability of a registrant to file a post-effective amendment or registration statement under paragraph (b) of this section. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission that a registrant which files a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section has not complied with the conditions of that paragraph. Any suspension under this paragraph shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the company. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment or registration statement that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any post-effective amendment or registration statement that may be filed after the suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment or registration statement under paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment or registration statement. Following this action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition.
