
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 232 - REGULATION S-T - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
#### Electronic Filing Requirements
##### § 232.102 Exhibits.

(a) Exhibits to an electronic filing that have not previously been filed with the Commission shall be filed in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption. Previously filed exhibits, whether in paper or electronic format, may be incorporated by reference into an electronic filing to the extent permitted by Rule 411 under the Securities Act (§ 230.411 of this chapter), Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-23 of this chapter), Rule 0-4 under the Investment Company Act (§ 270.0-4 of this chapter), Rule 0-6 under the Advisers Act (§ 275.0-6 of this chapter) or Rule 303 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.303). An electronic filer may, at its option, restate in electronic format any exhibit incorporated by reference that originally was filed in paper format.

(b) Amendments to all exhibits shall be filed in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an electronic filer shall, upon amendment, restate in electronic format its articles of incorporation, by-laws or investment advisory agreement (in the case of a registered investment company or a business development company).

(d) Each electronic filing requiring exhibits must include an exhibit index which must appear before the required signatures in the document. The index must list each exhibit filed, whether filed electronically or in paper. For electronic filings on Form S-6 (§ 239.16 of this chapter), Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter), Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter), Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), Form N-5 (§ 274.5 of this chapter), Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-6 (§ 274.11d of this chapter), Form N-8B2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter), Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), or filings subject to Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601 of this chapter), each exhibit identified in the exhibit index (other than an exhibit filed in eXtensible Business Reporting Language or an exhibit that is filed with Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter)) must include an active link to an exhibit that is filed with the document or, if the exhibit is incorporated by reference, an active hyperlink to the exhibit separately filed on EDGAR. Whenever a filer files an exhibit in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) or pursuant to § 232.311, the filer must place the letter "P" next to the listed exhibit in the exhibit index of the electronic filing to reflect the fact that the filer filed the exhibit in paper. In addition, if the exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to § 232.311, the filer must place the designation "Rule 311" next to the letter "P" in the exhibit index. If the exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption, the filer must place the letters "TH" or "CH," respectively, next to the letter "P" in the exhibit index. Whenever an electronic confirming copy of an exhibit is filed pursuant to a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d)), the exhibit index should specify where the confirming electronic copy can be located; in addition, the designation "CE" (confirming electronic) should be placed next to the listed exhibit in the exhibit index.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, any incorporation by reference by a registered investment company or a business development company must relate only to documents that have been filed in electronic format on the EDGAR system, unless the document has been filed in paper under a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) and any required confirming electronic copy has been submitted.
