
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 232 - REGULATION S-T - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
#### Hardship Exemptions
##### § 232.201 Temporary hardship exemption.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(a) If an electronic filer experiences unanticipated technical difficulties preventing the timely preparation and submission of an electronic filing, other than a Form 3 (§ 249.103 of this chapter), a Form 4 (§ 249.104 of this chapter), a Form 5 (§ 249.105 of this chapter), a Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7 and 274.402 of this chapter), a Form TA-1 (§ 249.100 of this chapter), a Form TA-2 (§ 249.102 of this chapter), a Form TA-W (§ 249.101 of this chapter), a Form D (§ 239.500 of this chapter), an application for an order under any section of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1), an application for an order under any section of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1), an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11), or an Asset Data File (as defined in § 232.11), the electronic filer may file the subject filing, under cover of Form TH (§§ 239.65, 249.447, 269.10 and 274.404 of this chapter), in paper format no later than one business day after the date on which the filing was to be made.

(1) An electronic imaged copy of the paper format document shall be the official filing for purposes of the federal securities laws.

(2) The following legend shall be set forth in capital letters on the cover page of the paper format document:

(3) Signatures to the paper format document may be in typed form rather than manual format. See Rule 302 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.302). All other requirements relating to paper format filings shall be satisfied.

(4) If the exemption pertains to a document filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m and 78o(d)) or section 30 of the Investment Company Act and the paper format document is filed in the manner specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the filing shall be deemed to have been filed by its required due date.
