
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 232 - REGULATION S-T - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
#### Preparation of Electronic Submissions
##### ยง 232.301 EDGAR Filer Manual.
###### www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html,fr.inspection@nara.gov.,https://www.sec.gov/edgar/filer-information/current-edgar-filer-manual.

Filers must prepare electronic filings in the manner prescribed by the EDGAR Filer Manual, promulgated by the Commission, which sets forth the technical formatting requirements for electronic submissions. The requirements for becoming an EDGAR Filer and updating company data are set forth in the EDGAR Filer Manual, Volume I: "General Information," Version 41 (December 2022). The requirements for filing on EDGAR are set forth in the updated EDGAR Filer Manual, Volume II: "EDGAR Filing," Version 64 (December 2022). All of these provisions have been incorporated by reference into the Code of Federal Regulations, which action was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You must comply with these requirements in order for documents to be timely received and accepted. The EDGAR Filer Manual is available for inspection at the Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). The EDGAR Filer Manual is available for website viewing and printing in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Operating conditions may limit access to the Commission's Public Reference Room. For information on the availability of the EDGAR Filer Manual at NARA, visitor emailThe EDGAR Filer Manual may also be obtained from
