
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 232 - REGULATION S-T - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
#### EDGAR Functions
##### ยง 232.501 Modular submissions and segmented filings.
###### Segmented filings.

(b)(1) Segments of a document intended to become an electronic filing may be submitted to the non-public EDGAR data storage area for assembly as a segmented filing.

(2) Segments shall be submitted no more than six business days in advance of the anticipated filing date and are not limited in number or size. They may be submitted from several geographic locations by more than one filing entity. Segments may be included in only one electronic filing. Once used, segments will be removed from the non-public EDGAR data storage area. The assembly of segments into a segmented filing shall be effected pursuant to the applicable provisions of the EDGAR Filer Manual. If segments are not prepared in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, the filing will not be constructed. The filing date of a segmented filing shall be the date upon which the filing is assembled and satisfies the requirements of Rule 13(a) of Regulation S-T (ยง 232.13(a)).

(3) Segments may be corrected or amended only by resubmitting the entire segment.

(c) A modular submission or segment shall not:

(1) be publicly available;

(2) Be deemed filed with the Commission for purposes of Securities Act section 11 (15 U.S.C. 77k), Exchange Act section 18 (15 U.S.C. 78r), Trust Indenture Act section 323 (15 U.S.C. 77www), or Investment Company Act section 34(b) (15 U.S.C. 80a-33(b)) prior to its inclusion in a filing; or

(3) Be deemed to constitute an official filing prior to its inclusion in a filing under the federal securities laws. Once a modular submission or segment has been included in an electronic filing, the liability and anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, and the Investment Company Act shall apply to the electronic filing.
