
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 239 - FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
#### Subpart B - Forms Pertaining to Exemptions
##### ยง 239.144 Form 144, for notice of proposed sale of securities pursuant to ยง 230.144 of this chapter.
###### o

(2) Is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78(d), respectively), shall file three copies of this form in paper format.

(b) This form need not be filed if the amount of securities to be sold during any period of three months does not exceed 5,000 shares or other units and the aggregate sale price does not exceed $50,000.

(c) Under sections 2(11), 4(1), 4(2), 4(4) and 19(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230) and Rule 144 thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this form by persons desiring to sell unregistered securities. Disclosure of the information specified in this form is mandatory before processing notices of proposed sale of securities under ยง 230.144 of this chapter. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing the proposed sale of unregistered securities by persons deemed not to be engaged in the distribution of securities. This notice will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public. Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can utilize it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Failure to disclose the information requested by Form 144 would make an exception under ยง 230.144 of this chapter unavailable and may result in civil or criminal action for violations of the Federal securities laws.
