
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Subpart A - Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
##### Rules of General Application
###### ยง 240.0-11 Filing fees for certain acquisitions, dispositions and similar transactions.
####### Proxy and information statement filings.

(c)At the time of filing a preliminary proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-6(a) or preliminary information statement pursuant to Rule 14c-5(a) that concerns a merger, consolidation, acquisition of a company, or proposed sale or other disposition of substantially all the assets of the registrant (including a liquidation), the following fee:

(1) For preliminary material involving a vote upon a merger, consolidation or acquisition of a company, a fee equal to the product of the rate applicable under section 14(g) of the Exchange Act multiplied by the proposed cash payment or, if the consideration does not consistent entirely of cash, the value of the securities and other property to be transferred to security holders in the transaction. The fee is payable whether the registrant is acquiring another company or being acquired.

(i) The value of securities or other property to be transferred to security holders, whether or not in combination with a cash payment for the same securities, shall be based upon the market value of the securities to be received by the acquiring person as established in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(ii) Notwithstanding the above, where the acquisition, merger or consolidation is for the sole purpose of changing the registrant's domicile, no filing fee is required to be paid.

(2) For preliminary material involving a vote upon a proposed sale or other disposition of substantially all the assets of the registrant, a fee equal to the product of the rate applicable under section 14(g) of the Exchange Act multiplied by the aggregate of, as applicable, the cash and the value of the securities (other than its own) and other property to be received by the registrant. In the case of a disposition in which the registrant will not receive any property, such as at liquidation or spin-off, the fee shall be equal to the product of the rate applicable under section 14(g) of the Exchange Act multiplied by the aggregate of, as applicable, the cash and the value of the securities and other property to be distributed to security holders.

(i) The value of the securities to be received (or distributed in the case of a spin-off or liquidation) shall be based upon the market value of such securities as established in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(ii) The value of other property shall be a bona fide estimate of the fair market value of such property.

(3) Where two or more companies are involved in the transaction, each shall pay a proportionate share of such fee, determined by the persons involved.

(4) Notwithstanding the above, the fee required by this paragraph (c) shall not be payable for a proxy statement filed by a company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
