
# Title 17 - Commodity and Securities Exchanges
## Chapter II - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
#### Subpart A - Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
##### Rules of General Application
###### ยง 240.0-13 Commission procedures for filing applications to request a substituted compliance or listed jurisdiction order under the Exchange Act.
####### www.sec.gov

(b) An applicant may submit a request electronically. The electronic mailbox to use for these applications is described on the Commission's website atin the "Exchange Act Substituted Compliance and Listed Jurisdiction Applications" section. In the event electronic mailboxes are revised in the future, applicants can find the appropriate mailbox by accessing the "Electronic Mailboxes at the Commission" section.

(c) All filings and submissions filed pursuant to this rule must be in the English language. If a filing or submission filed pursuant to this rule requires the inclusion of a document that is in a foreign language, a party must submit instead a fair and accurate English translation of the entire foreign language document. A party may submit a copy of the unabridged foreign language document when including an English translation of a foreign language document in a filing or submission filed pursuant to this rule. A party must provide a copy of any foreign language document upon the request of Commission staff.

(d) An applicant also may submit a request in paper format. Five copies of every paper application and every amendment to such an application must be submitted to the Office of the Secretary at 100 F Street NE., Washington, DC 20549-1090. Applications must be on white paper no larger than 8by 11 inches in size. The left margin of applications must be at least 1inches wide, and if the application is bound, it must be bound on the left side. All typewritten or printed material must be set forth in black ink so as to permit photocopying.

(e) Every application (electronic or paper) must contain the name, address, telephone number, and email address of each applicant and the name, address, telephone number, and email address of a person to whom any questions regarding the application should be directed. The Commission will not consider hypothetical or anonymous requests for a substituted compliance or listed jurisdiction order. Each applicant shall provide the Commission with any supporting documentation it believes necessary for the Commission to make such determination, including information regarding applicable requirements established by the foreign financial regulatory authority or authorities, as well as the methods used by the foreign financial regulatory authority or authorities to monitor and enforce compliance with such rules. Applicants should also cite to and discuss applicable precedent.

(f) Amendments to the application should be prepared and submitted as set forth in these procedures and should be marked to show what changes have been made.

(g) After the filing is complete, the staff will review the application. Once all questions and issues have been answered to the satisfaction of the staff, the staff will make an appropriate recommendation to the Commission. After consideration of the recommendation and a vote by the Commission, the Commission's Office of the Secretary will issue an appropriate response and will notify the applicant.

(h) The Commission shall publish in thea notice that a complete application has been submitted. The notice will provide that any person may, within the period specified therein, submit to the Commission any information that relates to the Commission action requested in the application. The notice also will indicate the earliest date on which the Commission would take final action on the application, but in no event would such action be taken earlier than 25 days following publication of the notice in the

(i) The Commission may, in its sole discretion, schedule a hearing on the matter addressed by the application.
