
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Ratings and Evaluations; Service Connection
###### ยง 3.309 Disease subject to presumptive service connection.
####### Diseases specific to radiation-exposed veterans.

(d)(1) The diseases listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be service-connected if they become manifest in a radiation-exposed veteran as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of ยง 3.307 of this part are also satisfied.

(2) The diseases referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are the following:

(i) Leukemia (other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia).

(ii) Cancer of the thyroid.

(iii) Cancer of the breast.

(iv) Cancer of the pharynx.

(v) Cancer of the esophagus.

(vi) Cancer of the stomach.

(vii) Cancer of the small intestine.

(viii) Cancer of the pancreas.

(ix) Multiple myeloma.

(x) Lymphomas (except Hodgkin's disease).

(xi) Cancer of the bile ducts.

(xii) Cancer of the gall bladder.

(xiii) Primary liver cancer (except if cirrhosis or hepatitis B is indicated).

(xiv) Cancer of the salivary gland.

(xv) Cancer of the urinary tract.

(xvi) Bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma.

(xvii) Cancer of the bone.

(xviii) Cancer of the brain.

(xix) Cancer of the colon.

(xx) Cancer of the lung.

(xxi) Cancer of the ovary.

(3) For purposes of this section:
