
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Ratings and Evaluations; Service Connection
###### ยง 3.317 Compensation for certain disabilities occurring in Persian Gulf veterans.
####### Presumptive service connection for infectious diseases.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, a disease listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be service connected if it becomes manifest in a veteran with a qualifying period of service, provided the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are also satisfied.

(2) The diseases referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are the following:

(i) Brucellosis.

(ii) Campylobacter jejuni.

(iii) Coxiella burnetii (Q fever).

(iv) Malaria.

(v) Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

(vi) Nontyphoid Salmonella.

(vii) Shigella.

(viii) Visceral leishmaniasis.

(ix) West Nile virus.

(3) The diseases listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated by service under the circumstances outlined in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section even though there is no evidence of such disease during the period of service.

(i) With three exceptions, the disease must have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year from the date of separation from a qualifying period of service as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Malaria must have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year from the date of separation from a qualifying period of service or at a time when standard or accepted treatises indicate that the incubation period commenced during a qualifying period of service. There is no time limit for visceral leishmaniasis or tuberculosis to have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more.
