
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Apportionments
###### § 3.454 Veterans disability pension.

Apportionment of disability pension will be as follows:

(a) Where a veteran with spouse, or child is incompetent and without legal fiduciary and is maintained in an institution by the United States or any political subdivision thereof, $25 monthly will be paid as an institutional award to the Director of a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center or chief officer of a non-Department of Veterans Affairs institution for the use of the veteran, and the balance will be paid to the dependent or dependents. If the veteran has no spouse, or child but has a dependent parent, apportionment will be in accordance with § 3.451.

(b)(1) Where the amount of section 306 pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b), as in effect on December 31, 1978, is reduced to $50 monthly under § 3.551(c), an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $50 and the total amount of pension payable on December 31, 1978.

(2) Where the amount of improved pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) is reduced to $60 monthly under § 3.551(d) or (e)(2), an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $50 and the rate payable if pension was being paid under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) including the additional amount payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(e) if the veteran is so entitled.

(3) Where the amount of improved pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) is reduced to $90 monthly under § 3.551(e)(1) an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $90 and the rate payable if pension was being paid under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) including the additional amount payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(e) if the veteran is so entitled.
