
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Hospitalization Adjustments
###### ยง 3.551 Reduction because of hospitalization.
####### Improved pension prior to February 1, 1990.

(d)(1) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is being furnished domiciliary care by VA, no pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the second full calendar month following the month of admission for such care. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))

(2) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is furnished hospital or nursing home care by VA, no pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the third full calendar month following the month of admission for such care. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))

(3) No pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for a veteran having neither spouse nor child, or to a veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, for any period after the month in which the veteran is readmitted within 6 months of a period of care for which pension was reduced under paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))

(4) Where improved pension is being paid to a married veteran at the rate prescribed by 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) all or any part of the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) may be apportioned for a spouse as provided in ยง 3.454(b). (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))

(5) The provisions of paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section are not applicable to any veteran who has a child, but is receiving pension as a veteran without a dependent because it is reasonable that some part of the child's estate be consumed for the child's maintenance under 38 U.S.C. 1522(b).

(6) For the purpose of paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section, if a veteran is furnished hospital or nursing home care by VA and then is transferred to VA-furnished domiciliary care, the period of hospital or nursing home care shall be considered as domiciliary care. Similarly, if a veteran is furnished domiciliary care by VA and then is transferred to VA-furnished hospital or nursing home care, the period of domiciliary care shall be considered hospital or nursing home care.
