
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Adjustments and Resumptions
###### ยง 3.657 Surviving spouse becomes entitled, or entitlement terminates.
####### Children's awards.

(b)(1) Where a surviving spouse establishes entitlement and:

(i) Payments were being made for a child or children at a lower monthly rate than that provided where there is a surviving spouse, the award to the surviving spouse will be effective the date provided by the applicable law, and will be the difference between the rate paid for the children and the rate payable for the surviving spouse and children. The full rate will be payable for the surviving spouse effective the day following the date of last payment for the children;

(ii) Payments were being made for a child or children at the same or higher monthly rate than that provided where there is a surviving spouse, the award to the surviving spouse will be effective the day following the date of last payment on the awards on behalf of the children.

(2) Where a surviving spouse has received benefits after entitlement was terminated and,

(i) The child or children were entitled to a lower monthly rate, the award to the surviving spouse will be amended to authorize payment at the rate provided for the children as if there were no surviving spouse, covering the period from the date the surviving spouse's entitlement terminated to the date of last payment. The award for the child or children will be made effective the following day.

(ii) The child or children were entitled to a higher monthly rate, the award to the surviving spouse will be discontinued effective date of last payment. The award to the children will be effective the day following the date the surviving spouse's entitlement terminated and will be the difference between the rate payable for the children and the rate paid on the surviving spouse's award. The full rate will be payable for the children effective the day following the date of last payment to the surviving spouse.
