
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Concurrent Benefits and Elections
###### ยง 3.714 Improved pension elections - public assistance beneficiaries.
####### Notice of right to make informed election or disaffirm election previously made.

(e)The Department of Veterans Affairs shall send a written notice to each pensioner to whom paragraph (b) of this section applies and who is eligible to elect or who has elected improved pension. The notice shall be in clear and understandable language. It shall include the following:

(1) A description of the consequences to the pensioner (and the pensioner's family if applicable) of losing medicaid eligibility because of an increase in income resulting from electing improved pension; and

(2) A description of the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section; and

(3) In the case of a pensioner who has previously elected improved pension, a form for the purpose of enabling the pensioner to disaffirm the previous election of improved pensions; and

(4) The following provisons of Pub. L. 96-272, sec. 310(b)(2)(B):

(i) That a pensioner has 90 days from the date the notice is mailed to the pensioner to disaffirm a previous election by completing the disaffirmation form and mailing it to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(ii) That a pensioner who disaffirms a previous election shall receive, beginning the calendar month after the calendar month in which the Department of Veterans Affairs receives the disaffirmation, the amount of pension payable if improved pension had not been elected.

(iii) That a pensioner who disaffirms a previous election may again elect improved pension but without a right to disaffirm the subsequent election.

(iv) That a pensioner who disaffirms an election of improved pension shall not be indebted to the United States for the period in which the pensioner received improved pension.
