
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Special Benefits
###### ยง 3.804 Special allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1312.

(a) The provisions of this section are applicable to the payment of a special allowance by the Department of Veterans Affairs to the surviving dependents of a veteran who served after September 15, 1940, and who died on or after January 1, 1957, as a result of such service and who was not a fully and currently insured individual under title II of the Social Security Act.

(b) The special allowance is not payable: (1) Where the veteran's death resulted from Department of Veterans Affairs hospitalization, treatment, examination, or training;

(2) Where the veteran's death was due to service rendered with the Commonwealth Army of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, or was due to service in the Philippine Scouts under section 14, Pub. L. 190, 79th Congress.

(c) A claim for dependency and indemnity compensation on a form prescribed will be accepted as a claim for the special allowance where it is determined that this benefit is payable or where a specific inquiry concerning entitlement to the special allowance is received.

(d) Payment of this allowance will be authorized on the basis of a certification from the Social Security Administration. Award actions subsequent to the original award, including adjustment and discontinuance, will be made in accordance with new certifications from the Social Security Administration.

(e)(1) The special allowance will be payable only if the death occurred: (i) While on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training as a member of a uniformed service (line of duty is not a factor); or

(ii) As the result of a disease or injury which was incurred or aggravated in line of duty while on active duty or active duty for training, or an injury which was incurred or aggravated in line of duty while on inactive duty training, as a member of a uniformed service after September 15, 1940, if the veteran was discharged or released from the period of such duty, under conditions other than dishonorable.

(2) Where the veteran died after separation from service: (i) Discharge from service must have been under conditions other than dishonorable as outlined in ยง 3.12.

(ii) Line of duty and service connection will be determined as outlined in ยง 3.1(k) and (m) and the ยง 3.300 series.
