
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### Special Benefits
###### ยง 3.815 Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 for an individual with disability from covered birth defects whose biological mother is or was a Vietnam veteran; identification of covered birth defects.
####### Identification of covered birth defects.

(d)All birth defects that are not excluded under the provisions of this paragraph are covered birth defects.

(1) Covered birth defects include, but are not limited to, the following (however, if a birth defect is determined to be familial in a particular family, it will not be a covered birth defect):

(i) Achondroplasia;

(ii) Cleft lip and cleft palate;

(iii) Congenital heart disease;

(iv) Congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot);

(v) Esophageal and intestinal atresia;

(vi) Hallerman-Streiff syndrome;

(vii) Hip dysplasia;

(viii) Hirschprung's disease (congenital megacolon);

(ix) Hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis;

(x) Hypospadias;

(xi) Imperforate anus;

(xii) Neural tube defects (including spina bifida, encephalocele, and anencephaly);

(xiii) Poland syndrome;

(xiv) Pyloric stenosis;

(xv) Syndactyly (fused digits);

(xvi) Tracheoesophageal fistula;

(xvii) Undescended testicle; and

(xviii) Williams syndrome.

(2) Birth defects that are familial disorders, including hereditary genetic conditions, are not covered birth defects. Familial disorders include, but are not limited to, the following, unless the birth defect is not familial in a particular family:

(i) Albinism;

(ii) Alpha-antitrypsin deficiency;

(iii) Crouzon syndrome;

(iv) Cystic fibrosis;

(v) Duchenne's muscular dystrophy;

(vi) Galactosemia;

(vii) Hemophilia;

(viii) Huntington's disease;

(ix) Hurler syndrome;

(x) Kartagener's syndrome (Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia);

(xi) Marfan syndrome;

(xii) Neurofibromatosis;

(xiii) Osteogenesis imperfecta;

(xiv) Pectus excavatum;

(xv) Phenylketonuria;

(xvi) Sickle cell disease;

(xvii) Tay-Sachs disease;

(xviii) Thalassemia; and

(xix) Wilson's disease.

(3) Conditions that are congenital malignant neoplasms are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Medulloblastoma;

(ii) Neuroblastoma;

(iii) Retinoblastoma;

(iv) Teratoma; and

(v) Wilm's tumor.

(4) Conditions that are chromosomal disorders are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Down syndrome and other Trisomies;

(ii) Fragile X syndrome;

(iii) Klinefelter's syndrome; and

(iv) Turner's syndrome.

(5) Conditions that are due to birth-related injury are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Brain damage due to anoxia during or around time of birth;

(ii) Cerebral palsy due to birth trauma, (iii) Facial nerve palsy or other peripheral nerve injury;

(iv) Fractured clavicle; and

(v) Horner's syndrome due to forceful manipulation during birth.

(6) Conditions that are due to a fetal or neonatal infirmity with well-established causes or that are miscellaneous pediatric conditions are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Asthma and other allergies;

(ii) Effects of maternal infection during pregnancy, including but not limited to, maternal rubella, toxoplasmosis, or syphilis;

(iii) Fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal effects of maternal drug use;

(iv) Hyaline membrane disease;

(v) Maternal-infant blood incompatibility;

(vi) Neonatal infections;

(vii) Neonatal jaundice;

(viii) Post-infancy deafness/hearing impairment (onset after the age of one year);

(ix) Prematurity; and

(x) Refractive disorders of the eye.

(7) Conditions that are developmental disorders are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Attention deficit disorder;

(ii) Autism;

(iii) Epilepsy diagnosed after infancy (after the age of one year);

(iv) Learning disorders; and

(v) Mental retardation (unless part of a syndrome that is a covered birth defect).

(8) Conditions that do not result in permanent physical or mental disability are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to:

(i) Conditions rendered non-disabling through treatment;

(ii) Congenital heart problems surgically corrected or resolved without disabling residuals;

(iii) Heart murmurs unassociated with a diagnosed cardiac abnormality;

(iv) Hemangiomas that have resolved with or without treatment; and

(v) Scars (other than of the head, face, or neck) as the only residual of corrective surgery for birth defects.
