
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 8 - NATIONAL SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE
#### Dividends
##### § 8.10 How paid.
###### Provided,

(g) At the written request of the insured, National Service life insurance dividends may be left to accumulate on deposit at interest which will be credited in such manner and at such rate as the Secretary may determine:That the policy is in force on a basis other than extended term insurance or level premium term insurance. Dividend credit of the insured held for payment of premiums or dividends left to accumulate on deposit as provided in this paragraph may be applied to the payment of premiums in advance upon written request of the insured made before default in payment of a premium. Dividends on deposit under the provisions of this paragraph will be used in addition to the reserve on the policy for the purpose of computing the period of extended term insurance or the amount of paid-up insurance as provided in §§ 8.14 and 8.15, respectively. Any dividend credit of a person who no longer has insurance in force by payment or waiver of premiums will be paid in cash to such person. If a person has a dividend credit option on a lapsed level premium term policy or a permanent plan policy on which extended term insurance has expired and such person has another policy in force by payment or waiver of premiums, any dividend credit or unpaid dividends on the lapsed policy, in the absence of instructions from the insured to the contrary, will be transferred to the policy which is in force and will be held on such policy as a dividend credit. Such dividend credit will be deemed to have accrued on the policy which is in force. Upon maturity of the policy, any dividend on deposit, any unpaid dividend payable in cash, and any dividend credit accruing from such policy which cannot be used to pay premiums will be paid to the person currently entitled to receive payments under the policy. If the policy is not in force at death, any such unpaid dividends and dividend credits will be paid to the insured's estate.

(h) Any insured receiving an annual dividend in cash may return such dividend check or an equivalent amount of money in order to have the dividend retained under the deposit or credit option. The return of such dividend must be made during the lifetime of the insured and before the end of the calendar year during which the dividend was paid. Dividends returned under this provision are not available for the payment of premiums, receipt of interest, or calculation of cash value prior to the postmark date of the returned check.
