
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 8 - NATIONAL SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE
#### Extended Term and Paid-Up Insurance
##### ยง 8.14 Provision for extended term insurance - other than 5-year level premium term or limited convertible 5-year level premium term policies.

(a) After the expiration of the first policy year and upon default in the payment of a premium within the grace period, if a permanent plan National Service Life Insurance policy other than the modified life plan has not been surrendered for cash or for paid-up insurance, the policy shall be extended automatically as term insurance. The extended term insurance shall be for an amount of the insurance equal to the face value of the policy less any indebtedness for such time from the due date of the premium in default as the cash value less any indebtedness and a charge for administrative cost for insurance issued under 38 U.S.C. 1925, will purchase when applied as a net single premium at the attained age of the insured. For this purpose the attained age is the age on the birthday anniversary nearest to the effective date of the policy plus the number of years and months from that date to the date the extended term insurance becomes effective. The extended term insurance shall not have a loan value, but shall have a cash value.

(b) Upon default in payment of a premium within the grace period on any permanent plan of National Service Life Insurance other than the modified life plan and any plan of insurance issued under 38 U.S.C. 1925, if the policy has been in force by payment or waiver of premiums for not less than 3 months nor more than 11 months, the policy shall be extended automatically as term insurance. The extended term insurance shall be for an amount of insurance equal to the face value of the policy less any indebtedness for such time from the due date of the premium in default as the reserve of the policy less any indebtedness will purchase when applied as a net single premium at the attained age of the insured. For this purpose the attained age is the age on the birthday anniversary nearest to the effective date of the policy plus the number of months from that date to the date extended term insurance becomes effective. Extended term insurance under this provision shall not have a cash or loan value. This paragraph shall be effective from and after August 2, 1948.

(c) Upon default in payment of a premium within the grace period, if a modified life plan of National Service Life Insurance has not been surrendered for cash or paid-up insurance and if the policy has been in force by payment or waiver of premiums for not less than 3 months, or for not less than 1 year for insurance issued under 38 U.S.C. 1925, the policy shall be extended automatically as of insurance equal to (1) the Initial Face Amount of Insurance (face amount of policy in force prior to insured's 65th birthday) less any indebtedness, for lapses which occur prior to the insured's 65th birthday, or (2) the Ultimate Face Amount of Insurance (face amount of policy in force on or after insured's 65th birthday) less any indebtedness, for lapses which occur on or after the insured's 65th birthday. The extended term insurance shall be for an amount of insurance equal to:

(i) The initial face amount of insurance (face amount of policy in force prior to the insured's 65th or 70th birthday, depending on the plan of insurance), less any indebtedness, for lapses which occur prior to the insured's 65th or 70th birthday, depending on the plan of insurance, or

(ii) The ultimate face amount of insurance (face amount of policy in force on or after insured's 65th or 70th birthday, depending on the plan of insurance) less any indebtedness, for lapses which occur on or after the insured's 65th or 70th birthday, depending on the plan of insurance. If a modified life plan policy is on extended term insurance at the end of the day preceding the insured's 65th or 70th birthday, depending on the plan of insurance, the amount of extended term insurance in effect under such policy shall be automatically reduced by one-half thereof. If the policy lapsed prior to the end of the first policy year, the extended term insurance shall not have a cash or loan value. If the policy lapsed after the first policy year, the extended term insurance shall not have a loan value, but shall have a cash value.

(d) VALife shall not be extended automatically as term insurance until the insured has paid the required premiums during the two-year waiting period that is imposed by 38 U.S.C. 1922B(c)(2) before VALife coverage is in force.
