
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1.554 Requirements for making requests.
###### Requests by letter and facsimile (fax).,i.e.,,e.g.,

(a)The FOIA request must be in writing and may be by letter or fax. To assist in processing, the request letter, envelope, or fax cover sheet of any FOIA request should be marked "Freedom of Information Act Request." Information helpful for filing a request, such as a list of VA FOIA contacts, VA's FOIA Reference Guide, and the text of the FOIA, are available on VA's FOIA homepage on the internet. See ยง 1.552(a) for the pertinent internet address. VA has a decentralized FOIA system, meaning that each VA component,administrations and staff offices, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) medical centers, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) regional offices, or offices located within the VA Central Office in Washington, DC (the Office of the Secretary), maintain their own FOIA processes and respond to FOIA requests directly. Accordingly, requesters must write directly to the FOIA Officer for the VA component that maintains the records. If requesting records from a particular medical facility, regional office, or Central Office component, the request should be sent to the FOIA Office at the address listed for that component. A legible return address must be included with the FOIA request; the requester may wish to include other contact information as well, such as a telephone number and email address. If the requester is not sure where to send the request, he or she should seek assistance from the FOIA Contact for the office believed to manage the programs whose records are being requested or, if these efforts fail, he or she should send the request to the Director, FOIA Service (005R1C), 810 Vermont Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20420, who will refer it for action to the FOIA contact at the appropriate component.
