
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 8a - VETERANS MORTGAGE LIFE INSURANCE
#### ยง 8a.2 Maximum amount of insurance.

(a) Each eligible individual is authorized an initial amount of insurance up to a maximum of $200,000 in VMLI to insure his or her life during periods he or she is obligated under a mortgage loan, except that, as to an individual housing unit, whenever there is a reduction in the actual amount of insurance in force as provided for in ยง 8a.4(a) the amount of VMLI thereafter available to insure the life of the same individual on the same housing unit is permanently reduced by a like amount.

(b) The maximum amount of insurance in force on any one life at one time shall not exceed the lesser of the following amounts:

(1) $200,000.

(2) For insurance issued prior to December 24, 1987, the reduced maximum amount of insurance then available to an eligible individual.

(3) The amount of the unpaid principal of the mortgage loan outstanding on the date of approval of the grant on a housing unit then owned and occupied by the eligible individual, or on a housing unit being or to be constructed or remodeled for the eligible individual, and such initial amount of insurance may be adjusted upward, subject to the maximum insurance available to the eligible individual, or downward, depending upon the amount of the mortgage loans outstanding on the date of full disbursement of the grant, or on the date of final settlement of the purchase, construction, or remodeling agreement, whichever date is the later date.

(4) Where an eligible individual ceases to own the housing unit which was subject to a mortgage loan that resulted in his or her life being insured under VMLI, and becomes obligated under a mortgate loan on another housing unit occupied or to be occupied by the eligible individual, the amount of the unpaid principal outstanding on the mortgage loan on the newly acquired housing unit on the date insurance hereunder is placed in effect.

(5) Where an eligible individual incurs or refinances a mortgage loan, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the amount of the incurred or refinanced mortgage loan.

(6) If title to an undivided interest in a housing unit is or will be vested in a person other than the spouse of an eligible individual, the amount of VMLI or his or her life shall be computed to be such part of the total of the unpaid principal of the loan outstanding on the housing unit as is proportionate to the undivided interest of the individual in the entire property.

(7) All claims, arising out of the deaths of insured individuals occurring prior to October 1, 1976, shall be subject to the $30,000 lifetime maximum amount of insurance then in effect. All claims, arising out of the deaths of insured individuals occurring on or after October 1, 1976, but prior to December 1, 1992, shall be subject to the $40,000 lifetime maximum amount of insurance then in effect.

(8) All claims, arising out of the deaths of insured individuals occurring prior to December 24, 1987, shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section then in effect which limited the amount of VMLI coverage to a lifetime maximum per eligible individual.

(c) Any eligible individual who prior to October 1, 1976, was covered by $30,000 VMLI and who on that date became eligible to have his or her coverage increased may elect to retain the lesser amount of coverage he or she had in effect prior to that date.
