
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 9 - SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND VETERANS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
#### ยง 9.20 Traumatic injury protection.
##### What are the eligibility requirements for payment of traumatic injury protection benefits?

(d)You must meet all of the following requirements in order to be eligible for traumatic injury protection benefits.

(1) You must be a member of the uniformed services who is insured by Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance under section 1967(a)(1)(A)(i), (B) or (C)(i) of title 38, United States Code, on the date you sustained a traumatic injury, except if you are a member who experienced a traumatic injury on or after October 7, 2001, through and including November 30, 2005. (For this purpose, you will be considered a member of the uniformed services until midnight on the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established your eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, notwithstanding an extension of your Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance coverage under section 1968(a) of title 38, United States Code.)

(2) You must suffer a scheduled loss that is a direct result of a traumatic injury and no other cause.

(3) You must survive for a period not less than seven full days from the date of the traumatic injury. The seven day period begins on the date and Zulu (Greenwich Meridean) time of the traumatic injury and ends 168 full hours later.

(4) You must suffer a scheduled loss under paragraph (e)(7) of this section within two years of the traumatic injury.

(5) You must suffer a traumatic injury before midnight on the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. For purposes of this section, the scheduled loss may occur after the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.
