
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 9 - SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND VETERANS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
#### ยง 9.20 Traumatic injury protection.
##### What is a scheduled loss and what amount will be paid because of that loss?

(e)(1) The term "scheduled loss" means a condition listed in the schedule in paragraph (e)(7) of this section if directly caused by a traumatic injury. A scheduled loss is payable at the amount specified in the schedule.

(2) The maximum amount payable under the schedule for all losses resulting from traumatic events occurring within a seven-day period is $100,000. We will calculate the seven-day period beginning with the day on which the first traumatic event occurs.

(3) A benefit will not be paid if a scheduled loss is due to a traumatic injury-

(i) Caused by-

(A) The member's attempted suicide, while sane or insane;

(B) An intentionally self-inflicted injury or an attempt to inflict such injury;

(C) Diagnostic procedures, preventive medical procedures such as inoculations, medical or surgical treatment for an illness or disease, or any complications arising from such procedures or treatment;

(D) Willful use of an illegal substance or a controlled substance unless administered or consumed on the advice of a medical professional; or

(ii) Sustained while a member was committing or attempting to commit a felony.

(4) A benefit will not be paid for a scheduled loss resulting from-

(i) A physical or mental illness or disease, whether or not caused by a traumatic injury, other than a pyogenic infection or physical illness or disease caused by biological, chemical, or radiological weapons or accidental ingestion of a contaminated substance; or

(ii) A mental disorder whether or not caused by a traumatic injury.

(5) Amount Payable under the Schedule of Losses. (i) The maximum amount payable for all scheduled losses resulting from a single traumatic event is limited to $100,000. For example, if a traumatic event on April 1, 2006, results in the immediate total and permanent loss of sight in both eyes, and the loss of one foot on May 1, 2006, as a direct result of the same traumatic event, the member will be paid $100,000.

(ii) If a member suffers more than one scheduled loss from separate traumatic events occurring more than seven full days apart, the scheduled losses will be considered separately and a benefit will be paid for each loss up to the maximum amount according to the schedule. For example, if a member suffers the loss of one foot at or above the ankle on May 1, 2006, from one event, the member will be paid $50,000. If the same member suffers loss of sight in both eyes from an event that occurred on November 1, 2006, the member will be paid an additional $100,000.
