
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 9 - SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND VETERANS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
#### ยง 9.20 Traumatic injury protection.
##### How does a member or beneficiary appeal an adverse eligibility determination?

(i)(1) Notice of a decision regarding a member's eligibility for traumatic injury protection benefits will include an explanation of the procedure for obtaining review of the decision. An appeal of an eligibility determination, such as whether the loss occurred within 365 days of the traumatic injury, whether the injury was self-inflicted or whether a loss of hearing was total and permanent, must be in writing. An appeal must be submitted by a member or a member's legal representative or by the beneficiary or the beneficiary's legal representative, within one year of the date of a denial of eligibility, to the office of the uniformed service identified in the decision regarding the member's eligibility for the benefit.

(2) An appeal regarding whether a member was insured under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance when the traumatic injury was sustained must be in writing. An appeal must be submitted by a member or a member's legal representative or by the beneficiary or the beneficiary's legal representative within one year of the date of a denial of eligibility to the Office of Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.

(3) Nothing in this section precludes a member from pursuing legal remedies under 38 U.S.C. 1975 and 38 CFR 9.13.
