
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 12 - DISPOSITION OF VETERAN'S PERSONAL FUNDS AND EFFECTS
#### Disposition of Personal Funds and Effects Left Upon Premises of the Department of Veterans Affairs By Non-Veteran Patients, Employees and Other Persons, Known or Unknown
##### § 12.16 Action on inventory and funds.

(a) The manager will dispose of the personal funds and effects as promptly as possible. No expense will be incurred by the Government for shipment of the effects.

(b) In making disposition of funds and effects the manager will release the funds to the owner if living and will release the effects to him or her or as directed by him or her, provided that if he or she is incompetent and has a guardian the funds and effects will be released to such guardian. If the owner is deceased, and left a last will and testament probated under the laws of the place of his or her last legal domicile or under the laws of the State, territory, insular possession, or dependency, within which the field facility may be, the personal property of such decedent situated upon such premises will be released to the executor. If such person left on said premises funds or effects not disposed of by a will probated in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, such property shall be released to the administrator, if one has been appointed.

(c) In those cases where there is neither an administrator nor an executor the funds and effects will be released to the person entitled to inherit the personal property of the decedent under the intestacy laws of the State where the decedent was last domiciled.

(d) Where disposition of the funds and effects cannot be accomplished under the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the funds, at the expiration of 90 days will be deposited to the General Post Fund and the effects will be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of §§ 12.8, 12.9, and 12.10.
