
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1.559 Appeals.
###### Time limits and content of appeal.,i.e.,,e.g.,

(d)The appeal to the VA OGC (024) or VA Office of Inspector General (50) must be received or postmarked no later than 90 calendar days after the date of the adverse determination and must contain the following: A legible return address; clear identification of the determination being appealed, including any assigned request number (if no request number was assigned, other information must be provided such as the name of the FOIA officer, the address of the component, the date of the component's determination, if any, and the precise subject matter of the appeal); and identification of the part of the determination that is being appealed (if appealing only a portion of the determination). If the appeal involves records about the requester himself or herself or records to which a confidentiality statute applies, the requester must comply with the verification of identity requirements set forth in ยง 1.577 of this part, which applies to requests for records maintained under the Privacy Act. If the appeal involves records not covered by the Privacy Act, but which the requester believes may pertain to him or her, the requester may obtain greater access to the records by complying with the verification of identity requirements set forth in ยง 1.577 of this part, providing the image of the requester's signature (such as an attachment that shows the requester's handwritten signature), or submitting a notarized, signed statement affirming his or her identity or a declaration made in compliance with 28 U.S.C. 1746. The suggested language for a statement under 28 U.S.C. 1746 is included on VA's FOIA homepage. See ยง 1.552(a) of this part for the pertinent internet address. If the appeal involves records pertaining to another individual (the requester is not the record subject), the requester may obtain greater access to the records if he or she provides satisfactory authorization to act on behalf of the record subject to receive the records or by submitting proof that the record subject is deceased (a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). Each component has discretion to require that a requester supply additional information to verify that a record subject has consented to disclosure. Appeals should be marked "Freedom of Information Act Appeal." The requester may include other information as well, such as a telephone number and email address and a copy of the initial agency determination. An appeal is not perfected until VA either receives the required information identified above or the appeal is otherwise easily and sufficiently defined. The designated official within the Office of the General Counsel (024) will act on behalf of the Secretary on all appeals under this section, except those pertaining to the Office of Inspector General. The designated official in the Office of Inspector General will act on all appeals pertaining to Office of Inspector General records. A determination by the Office of General Counsel, or designated official within the Office of Inspector General, will be the final VA action.
