
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 14 - LEGAL SERVICES, GENERAL COUNSEL, AND MISCELLANEOUS CLAIMS
#### Commitments - Fiduciaries
##### ยง 14.709 Surety bonds; court-appointed fiduciary.

(a) It is the policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs to require, where possible under State laws and rules of the court, corporate surety bonds in all court-appointed fiduciary cases where the fiduciary is an individual and the estate is sufficient to justify the expense of procuring a corporate surety bond. Corporate bonds may be required of corporate fiduciaries in accordance with State laws. In cases wherein fiduciaries neglect or refuse to furnish corporate bonds, as requested by the Regional Counsel, the Regional Counsel should take appropriate court action and notify the Veterans Service Center Manager.

(b) When it is not practical or feasible to require a fiduciary to furnish a corporate surety bond, the Regional Counsel is authorized to accept bonds with such number of personal sureties as is permissible under State law, but in no event less than one. To be acceptable for Department of Veterans Affairs purposes, each personal surety must be worth at least the penal sum named in the bond over and above all debts, liabilities and exemptions and qualify in accordance with the requirements of State law. The Regional Counsel will request suitable evidence of financial responsibility whenever there is any question as to the ability of a personal surety to meet any probable liability. When suitable evidence is not furnished as requested, or financial responsibility is found to be insufficient to meet the penal sum of the bond, the Regional Counsel should take appropriate court action and notify the Veterans Service Center Manager.

(c) It is the policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs to require surety bonds in an amount commensurate with value of the personal estate derived from Department of Veterans Affairs benefits plus the anticipated net income from Department of Veterans Affairs benefits received during the ensuing accounting period. In cases where the fiduciaries neglect or refuse to furnish surety bonds in the amount requested by the Regional Counsel, the Regional Counsel should take appropriate court action and notify the Veterans Service Center Manager. When permissible under State law, the Regional Counsel may accept, without objection, a lesser degree of protection approved by the court when it is determined that such action will adequately protect the beneficiary's estate.
