
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Definitions and Active Duty
##### ยง 17.31 Duty periods defined.
###### Active duty

(b)means:

(1) Full-time duty in the Armed Forces, other than active duty for training.

(2) Full-time duty, other than for training purposes, as a commissioned officer of the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service during the following dates:

(i) On or after July 29, 1945;

(ii) Before July 29, 1945, under circumstances affording entitlement to full military benefits; or

(3) Full-time duty as a commissioned officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or its predecessor organizations, the Coast and Geodetic Survey or the Environmental Science Services Administration, during the following dates:

(i) On or after July 29, 1945;

(ii) Before July 29, 1945, under the following circumstances:

(A) While on transfer to one of the Armed Forces;

(B) While, in time of war or national emergency declared by the President, assigned to duty on a project for one of the Armed Forces in an area determined by the Secretary of Defense to be of immediate military hazard; or

(C) In the Philippine Islands on December 7, 1941, and continuously in such islands thereafter; or

(4) Service as a cadet at the U.S. Military, Air Force, or Coast Guard Academy, or as a midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy.

(5) Service in Women's Army Auxiliary Corps (WAAC). Recognized effective March 18, 1980.

(6) Service of any person in a group the members of which rendered service to the Armed Forces of the United States in a capacity considered civilian employment or contractual service at the time such service was rendered, if the Secretary of Defense:

(i) Determines that the service of such group constituted active military service; and

(ii) Issues to each member of such group a discharge from such service under honorable conditions where the nature and duration of the service of such member so warrants.

(7) Service in American Merchant Marine in Oceangoing Service any time during the period December 7, 1941, to August 15, 1945. Recognized effective January 19, 1988.

(8) Service by the approximately 50 Chamorro and Carolinian former native policemen who received military training in the Donnal area of central Saipan and were placed under the command of Lt. Casino of the 6th Provisional Military Police Battalion to accompany U.S. Marines on active, combat-patrol activity any time during the period August 19, 1945, to September 2, 1945. Recognized effective September 30, 1999.

(9) Service by Civilian Crewmen of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey (USCGS) vessels, who performed their service in areas of immediate military hazard while conducting cooperative operations with and for the U.S. Armed Forces any time during the period December 7, 1941, to August 15, 1945. Qualifying USCGS vessels specified by the Secretary of the Air Force are the Derickson, Explorer, Gilbert, Hilgard, E. Lester Jones, Lydonia, Patton, Surveyor, Wainwright, Westdahl, Oceanographer, Hydrographer, or Pathfinder. Recognized effective April 8, 1991.

(10) Service by Civilian Employees of Pacific Naval Air Bases who actively participated in Defense of Wake Island during World War II. Recognized effective January 22, 1981.

(11) Service by Civilian Navy Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) Technicians who served in the Combat Areas of the Pacific any time during the period December 7, 1941, to August 15, 1945. Recognized effective August 2, 1988.

(12) Service by Civilian personnel assigned to the Secret Intelligence Element of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). Recognized effective December 27, 1982.

(13) Service by Engineer Field Clerks (World War I). Recognized effective August 31, 1979.

(14) Service by Guam Combat Patrol. Recognized effective May 10, 1983.

(15) Service by Honorably discharged members of the American Volunteer Group (Flying Tigers) who served any time during the period December 7, 1941, to July 18, 1942. Recognized effective May 3, 1991.

(16) Service by Honorably discharged members of the American Volunteer Guard, Eritrea Service Command who served any time during the period June 21, 1942, to March 31, 1943. Recognized effective June 29, 1992.

(17) Service by Male Civilian Ferry Pilots. Recognized effective July 17, 1981.

(18) Service with the Operational Analysis Group of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, Office of Emergency Management, which served overseas with the U.S. Army Air Corps any time during the period December 7, 1941, to August 15, 1945. Recognized effective August 27, 1999.

(19) Service by Quartermaster Corps Female Clerical Employees serving with the American Expeditionary Forces in World War II. Recognized effective January 22, 1981.

(20) Service by Quartermaster Corps Keswick Crew on Corregidor (World War II). Recognized effective February 7, 1984.

(21) Service by Reconstruction Aides and Dietitians in World War I. Recognized effective July 6, 1981.

(22) Service by Signal Corps Female Telephone Operators Unit of World War I. Recognized effective May 15, 1979.

(23) Service by three scouts/guides, Miguel Tenorio, Penedicto Taisacan, and Cristino Dela Cruz, who assisted the U.S. Marines in the offensive operations against the Japanese on the Northern Mariana Islands from June 19, 1944, through September 2, 1945. Recognized effective September 30, 1999.

(24) Service by U.S. civilian employees of American Airlines who served overseas as a result of American Airlines' Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective October 5, 1990.

(25) Service by U.S. civilian female employees of the U.S. Army Nurse Corps while serving in the Defense of Bataan and Corregidor any time during the period January 2, 1942, to February 3, 1945. Recognized effective December 13, 1993.

(26) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Braniff Airways, who served overseas in the North Atlantic or under the jurisdiction of the North Atlantic Wing, Air Transport Command (ATC), as a result of a Contract with the ATC any time during the period February 26, 1942, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective June 2, 1997.

(27) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Consolidated Vultree Aircraft Corporation (Consairway Division), who served overseas as a result of a Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective June 29, 1992.

(28) Service by U.S. Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Northeast Airlines Atlantic Division, who served overseas as a result of Northeast Airlines' Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 7, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective June 2, 1997.

(29) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Northwest Airlines, who served overseas as a result of Northwest Airlines' Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective December 13, 1993.

(30) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Pan American World Airways and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, who served overseas as a result of Pan American's Contract with the Air Transport Command and Naval Air Transport Service any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective July 16, 1992.

(31) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of Transcontinental and Western Air (TWA), Inc., who served overseas as a result of TWA's Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. The "Flight Crew" includes pursers. Recognized effective May 13, 1992.

(32) Service by U.S. Civilian Flight Crew and Aviation Ground Support Employees of United Air Lines (UAL), who served overseas as a result of UAL's Contract with the Air Transport Command any time during the period December 14, 1941, to August 14, 1945. Recognized effective May 13, 1992.

(33) Service by U.S. civilian volunteers who actively participated in the Defense of Bataan. Recognized effective February 7, 1984.

(34) Service by U.S. civilians of the American Field Service (AFS) who served overseas operationally in World War I any time during the period August 31, 1917, to January 1, 1918. Recognized effective August 30, 1990.

(35) Service by U.S. civilians of the American Field Service (AFS) who served overseas under U.S. Armies and U.S. Army Groups in World War II any time during the period December 7, 1941, to May 8, 1945. Recognized effective August 30, 1990.

(36) Service by U.S. Merchant Seamen who served on blockships in support of Operation Mulberry. Recognized effective October 18, 1985.

(37) Service by Wake Island Defenders from Guam. Recognized effective April 7, 1982.

(38) Service by Women's Air Forces Service Pilots (WASP). Recognized effective November 23, 1977.

(39) Service by persons who were injured while providing aerial transportation of mail and serving under conditions set forth in Public Law 73-140.

(40) Service in the Alaska Territorial Guard during World War II, for any person who the Secretary of Defense determines was honorably discharged.

(41) Service by Army field clerks.

(42) Service by Army Nurse Corps, Navy Nurse Corps, and female dietetic and physical therapy personnel as follows:

(i) Female Army and Navy nurses on active service under order of the service department; or

(ii) Female dietetic and physical therapy personnel, excluding students and apprentices, appointed with relative rank after December 21, 1942, or commissioned after June 21, 1944.

(43) Service by students who were enlisted men in Aviation camps during World War I.

(44) Active service in the Coast Guard after January 28, 1915, while under the jurisdiction of the Treasury Department, the Navy Department, the Department of Transportation, or the Department of Homeland Security. This does not include temporary members of the Coast Guard Reserves.

(45) Service by contract surgeons if the disability was the result of injury or disease contracted in the line of duty during a period of war while actually performing the duties of assistant surgeon or acting assistant surgeon with any military force in the field, or in transit, or in a hospital.

(46) Service by field clerks of the Quartermaster Corps.

(47) Service by lighthouse service personnel who were transferred to the service and jurisdiction of the War or Navy Departments by Executive Order under the Act of August 29, 1916. Effective July 1, 1939, service was consolidated with the Coast Guard.

(48) Service by male nurses who were enlisted in a Medical Corps.

(49) Service by persons having a pensionable or compensable status before January 1, 1959.

(50) Service by a Commonwealth Army veteran or new Philippine Scout, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 1735, who resides in the United States and is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence; service by Regular Philippine Scouts and service in the Insular Force of the Navy, Samoan Native Guard, or Samoan Native Band of the Navy.

(51) Service with the Revenue Cutter Service while serving under direction of the Secretary of the Navy in cooperation with the Navy. Effective January 28, 1915, the Revenue Cutter Service was merged into the Coast Guard.

(52) Service during World War I in the Russian Railway Service Corps as certified by the Secretary of the Army.

(53) Service by members of training camps authorized by section 54 of the National Defense Act (Pub. L. 64-85, 39 Stat. 166), except for members of Student Army Training Corps Camps at the Presidio of San Francisco; Plattsburg, New York; Fort Sheridan, Illinois; Howard University, Washington, DC; Camp Perry, Ohio; and Camp Hancock, Georgia, from July 18, 1918, to September 16, 1918.

(54) Service in the Women's Army Corps (WAC) after June 30, 1943.

(55) Service in the Women's Reserve of the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard.

(56) Effective July 28, 1959, service by a veteran who was discharged for alienage during a period of hostilities unless evidence affirmatively shows the veteran was discharged at his or her own request. A veteran who was discharged for alienage after a period of hostilities and whose service was honest and faithful is not barred from benefits if he or she is otherwise entitled. A discharge changed prior to January 7, 1957, to honorable by a board established under 10 U.S.C. 1552 and 1553 will be considered as evidence that the discharge was not at the alien's request.

(57) Attendance at the preparatory schools of the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Military Academy, or the United States Naval Academy for enlisted active duty members who are reassigned to a preparatory school without a release from active duty, and for other individuals who have a commitment to active duty in the Armed Forces that would be binding upon disenrollment from the preparatory school.

(58) For purposes of providing medical care under chapter 17 for a service-connected disability, service by any person who has suffered an injury or contracted a disease in line of duty while en route to or from, or at, a place for final acceptance or entry upon active duty and:

(i) Who has applied for enlistment or enrollment in the active military, naval, or air service and has been provisionally accepted and directed or ordered to report to a place for final acceptance into such service;

(ii) Who has been selected or drafted for service in the Armed Forces and has reported pursuant to the call of the person's local draft board and before rejection; or

(iii) Who has been called into the Federal service as a member of the National Guard, but has not been enrolled for the Federal service.

Note to paragraph (b)(58): The injury or disease must be due to some factor relating to compliance with proper orders. Draftees and selectees are included when reporting for preinduction examination or for final induction on active duty. Such persons are not included for injury or disease suffered during the period of inactive duty, or period of waiting, after a final physical examination and prior to beginning the trip to report for induction. Members of the National Guard are included when reporting to a designated rendezvous.

(59) Authorized travel to or from such duty or service, as described in this section.

(60) The period of time immediately following the date an individual is discharged or released from a period of active duty, as determined by the Secretary concerned to have been required for that individual to proceed to that individual's home by the most direct route, and in any event until midnight of the date of such discharge or release.
