
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1.561 Fees.
###### Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.,Waiving or reducing fees.

(n)(1)Fees for processing the request may be waived if the requester meets the criteria listed in this section. The requester must submit adequate justification for a fee waiver; without adequate justification, the request will be denied. The FOIA Officer may, at his or her discretion, communicate with the requester to seek additional information, if necessary, regarding the fee waiver request. If the additional information is not received from the requester within 10 days of the FOIA Officer's communication with the requester, VA will assume that the requester does not wish to pursue the fee waiver request and the fee waiver request will be closed. If the request for waiver or reduction is denied or closed, the underlying FOIA request will continue to be processed in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Part. Requests for fee waivers are decided on a case-by-case basis; receipt of a fee waiver in the past does not establish entitlement to a fee waiver each time a request is submitted.

(2) Records responsive to a request will be furnished without charge or at a charge reduced below that established under paragraph (d) of this section where a FOIA Officer determines, based on all available evidence, that the requester has demonstrated that:

(i) Disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government, and

(ii) Disclosure of the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(3) To determine whether the fee waiver requirement under paragraph (n)(2)(i) of this section is met, the FOIA Officer will consider the following factors:
