
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Enrollment Provisions and Medical Benefits Package
##### ยง 17.36 Enrollment - provision of hospital and outpatient care to veterans.
###### notification of eligible enrollees.

(c)(1) It is anticipated that each year the Secretary will consider whether to change the categories and subcategories of veterans eligible to be enrolled. The Secretary at any time may revise the categories or subcategories of veterans eligible to be enrolled by amending paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The preamble to adocument announcing which priority categories and subcategories are eligible to be enrolled must specify the projected number of fiscal year applicants for enrollment in each priority category, projected healthcare utilization and expenditures for veterans in each priority category, appropriated funds and other revenue projected to be available for fiscal year enrollees, and projected total expenditures for enrollees by priority category. The determination should include consideration of relevant internal and external factors, e.g., economic changes, changes in medical practices, and waiting times to obtain an appointment for care. Consistent with these criteria, the Secretary will determine which categories of veterans are eligible to be enrolled based on the order of priority specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Unless changed by a rulemaking document in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, VA will enroll the priority categories of veterans set forth in ยง 17.36(b) beginning June 15, 2009, except that those veterans in subcategories (v) and (vi) of priority category 8 are not eligible to be enrolled.
