
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Enrollment Provisions and Medical Benefits Package
##### ยง 17.38 Medical benefits package.
###### Restoring health.

(3)Care is deemed to restore health if the care will restore the quality of life or daily functional level that has been lost due to illness or injury.

(c) In addition to the care specifically excluded from the "medical benefits package" under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the "medical benefits package" does not include the following:

(1) Abortions, except when:

(i) The life or the health of the pregnant veteran would be endangered if the pregnancy were carried to term; or

(ii) The pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest. Self-reporting from the pregnant veteran constitutes sufficient evidence that an act of rape or incest occurred.

(2) In vitro fertilization. Note: See ยง 17.380.

(3) Drugs, biologicals, and medical devices not approved by the Food and Drug Administration unless the treating medical facility is conducting formal clinical trials under an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) or an Investigational New Drug (IND) application, or the drugs, biologicals, or medical devices are prescribed under a compassionate use exemption.

(4) Gender alterations.

(5) Hospital and outpatient care for a veteran who is either a patient or inmate in an institution of another government agency if that agency has a duty to give the care or services. This exclusion does not apply to veterans who are released from incarceration in a prison or jail into a temporary housing program (such as a community residential re-entry center or halfway house).

(6) Membership in spas and health clubs.
