
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Hospital, Domiciliary and Nursing Home Care
##### ยง 17.46 Eligibility for hospital, domiciliary or nursing home care of persons discharged or released from active military, naval, or air service.

(a) In furnishing hospital care on or before June 6, 2019, under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a)(1), VA officials shall:

(1) If the veteran is in immediate need of hospitalization, furnish care at VA facility where the veteran applies or, if that facility is incapable of furnishing care, arrange to admit the veteran to the nearest VA medical center, or Department of Defense hospital with which VA has a sharing agreement under 38 U.S.C. 8111, which is capable of providing the needed care, or if VA or DOD facilities are not available, arrange for care on a contract basis if authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1703 and 38 CFR 17.52; or

(2) If the veteran needs non-immediate hospitalization, schedule the veteran for admission at VA facility where the veteran applies, if the schedule permits, or refer the veteran for admission or scheduling for admission at the nearest VA medical center, or Department of Defense facility with which VA has a sharing agreement under 38 U.S.C. 8111.

(b) Domiciliary care may be furnished when needed to:

(1) Any veteran whose annual income does not exceed the maximum annual rate of pension payable to a veteran in need of regular aid and attendance, or

(2) Any veteran who the Secretary determines had no adequate means of support. An additional requirement for eligibility for domiciliary care is the ability of the veteran to perform the following:

(i) Perform without assistance daily ablutions, such as brushing teeth; bathing; combing hair; body eliminations.

(ii) Dress self, with a minimum of assistance.

(iii) Proceed to and return from the dining hall without aid.

(iv) Feed Self.

(v) Secure medical attention on an ambulatory basis or by use of personally propelled wheelchair.

(vi) Have voluntary control over body eliminations or control by use of an appropriate prosthesis.

(vii) Share in some measure, however slight, in the maintenance and operation of the facility.

(viii) Make rational and competent decisions as to his or her desire to remain or leave the facility.
