
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Community Residential Care
##### § 17.74 Standards applicable to medical foster homes.
###### Smoke and carbon monoxide (CO) detectors and smoke and CO alarms.

(g)Medical foster homes must comply with this paragraph (g) no later than 60 days after the first veteran is placed in the home. Prior to compliance, VA inspectors will provisionally approve a medical foster home for the duration of this 60-day period if the medical foster home mitigates risk through the use of battery-operated single station alarms, provided that the alarms are installed before any veteran is placed in the home.

(1) Smoke detectors or smoke alarms must be provided in accordance with sections 24.3.4.1.1 or 24.3.4.1.2 of NFPA 101 (incorporated by reference, see § 17.1); section 24.3.4.1.3 of NFPA 101 will not be used. In addition, smoke alarms must be interconnected so that the operation of any smoke alarm causes an alarm in all smoke alarms within the medical foster home. Smoke detectors or smoke alarms must not be installed in the kitchen or any other location subject to causing false alarms.

(2) CO detectors or CO alarms must be installed in any medical foster home with a fuel-burning appliance, fireplace, or an attached garage, in accordance with NFPA 720 (incorporated by reference, see § 17.1).

(3) Combination CO/smoke detectors and combination CO/smoke alarms are permitted.

(4) Smoke detectors and smoke alarms must initiate a signal to a remote supervising station to notify emergency forces in the event of an alarm.

(5) Smoke and/or CO alarms and smoke and/or CO detectors, and all other elements of a fire alarm system, must be inspected, tested, and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 (incorporated by reference, see § 17.1) and NFPA 720 (incorporated by reference, see § 17.1).
