
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Charges, Waivers, and Collections
##### ยง 17.100 Requirements for provider-based status.
###### Obligations of hospital outpatient departments and hospital-based facilities.

(5)If the facility seeking provider-based status is a hospital outpatient department or hospital-based facility, the facility must fulfill the obligations described in this paragraph:

(i) The hospital outpatient department must comply with the antidumping rules of 42 CFR 489.20(l), (m), (q), and (r) and ยง 489.24.

(ii) Physician services furnished in hospital outpatient departments or hospital-based facilities must be billed with the correct site-of-service so that appropriate physician and practitioner payment amounts can be determined based on their geographical location.

(iii) Physicians who work in hospital outpatient departments or hospital-based facilities are obligated to comply with the non-discrimination provisions in 42 CFR 489.10(b).

(iv) Hospital outpatient departments must treat all Medicare patients seen on an urgent/emergent basis as hospital outpatients.

(v) In the case of a patient admitted to the hospital as an inpatient after receiving treatment in the hospital outpatient department or hospital-based facility, payments for services in the hospital outpatient department or hospital-based facility are subject to the payment window provisions applicable to PPS hospitals and to hospitals and units excluded from PPS set forth at 42 CFR 412.2(c)(5) and at 42 CFR 413.40(c)(2), respectively.

(vi) The hospital outpatient department must meet applicable VA policies pertaining to hospital health and safety programs.

(vii) VA must treat any facility that is located on the main hospital campus as a department of the hospital.
