
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Charges, Waivers, and Collections
##### ยง 17.101 Collection or recovery by VA for medical care or services provided or furnished to a veteran for a non-service connected disability.
###### RVUs for CPT/HCPCS codes that do not have Medicare RVUs and are not designated as unlisted procedures.

(ii)For CPT/HCPCS codes that are not assigned RVUs in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (iii) of this section, total RVUs are developed based on various charge data sources. For these CPT/HCPCS codes, that nationwide 80th percentile billed charges are obtained, where statistically credible, from the FAIR Health database. For any remaining CPT/HCPCS codes, the nationwide 80th percentile billed charges are obtained, where statistically credible, from the Part B component of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample. For each of these CPT/HCPCS codes, nationwide total RVUs are obtained by taking the nationwide 80th percentile billed charges obtained using the preceding databases and dividing by the nationwide conversion factor for the corresponding CPT/HCPCS code group determined pursuant to paragraphs (f)(3) introductory text and (f)(3)(i) of this section. For any remaining CPT/HCPCS codes that have not been assigned RVUs using the preceding data sources, the nationwide total RVUs are calculated by summing the work expense and non-facility practice expense RVUs found in Medicare ASP Pricing RBRVS. The resulting nationwide total RVUs obtained using these data sources are multiplied by the geographic area adjustment factors determined pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section to obtain the area-specific total RVUs.
