
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Inventions by Employees of Department of Veterans Affairs
##### ยง 1.663 Licensing of Government-owned inventions.

(a) The licensing of Government-owned inventions under VA control and custody will be conducted pursuant to the regulations on the licensing of Government-owned inventions contained in 37 CFR part 404, and 15 U.S.C. 3710a, as appropriate.

(b) Any person whose application for a license in an invention under VA control and custody has been denied; whose license in such an invention has been modified or terminated, in whole or in part; or who timely filed a written objection in response to a proposal to grant an exclusive or partially exclusive license in an invention under VA control or custody, may, if damaged, appeal any decision or determination concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification, or termination of a license to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Such appeal shall be in writing; shall set forth with specificity the basis of the appeal; and shall be postmarked not later than 60 days after the action being appealed. Upon request of the appellant, such appeal may be considered by one to three persons appointed on a case-by-case basis by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Such a request will be granted only if it accompanies the written appeal. Appellant may appear and be represented by counsel before such a panel, which will sit in Washington, DC. If the appeal challenges a decision to grant an exclusive or partially exclusive license in an invention under VA control or custody, the licensee shall be furnished a copy of the appeal, shall be given the opportunity to respond in writing, may appear and be represented by counsel at any hearing requested by appellant, and may request a hearing if appellant has not, under the same terms and conditions, at which the appellant may also appear and be represented by counsel.
