
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Copayments
##### § 17.108 Copayments for inpatient hospital care and outpatient medical care.
###### Copayments for outpatient medical care.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section, a veteran, as a condition for receiving outpatient medical care provided by VA (provided either directly by VA or obtained by VA by contract, provider agreement, or sharing agreement), must agree to pay VA (and is obligated to pay VA) a copayment as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(4) of this section.

(2) The copayment for outpatient medical care is $15 for a primary care outpatient visit and $50 for a specialty care outpatient visit. If a veteran has more than one primary care encounter on the same day and no specialty care encounter on that day, the copayment amount is the copayment for one primary care outpatient visit. If a veteran has one or more primary care encounters and one or more specialty care encounters on the same day, the copayment amount is the copayment for one specialty care outpatient visit.

(3) For purposes of this section, a primary care visit is an episode of care furnished in a clinic that provides integrated, accessible healthcare services by clinicians who are accountable for addressing a large majority of personal healthcare needs, developing a sustained partnership with patients, and practicing in the context of family and community. Primary care includes, but is not limited to, diagnosis and management of acute and chronic biopsychosocial conditions, health promotion, disease prevention, overall care management, and patient and caregiver education. Each patient's identified primary care clinician delivers services in the context of a larger interdisciplinary primary care team. Patients have access to the primary care clinician and much of the primary care team without need of a referral. In contrast, specialty care is generally provided through referral. A specialty care outpatient visit is an episode of care furnished in a clinic that does not provide primary care, and is only provided through a referral. Some examples of specialty care provided at a specialty care clinic are radiology services requiring the immediate presence of a physician, audiology, optometry, magnetic resonance imagery (MRI), computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan, nuclear medicine studies, surgical consultative services, and ambulatory surgery.

(4) For outpatient medical care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, or the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
