
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Copayments
##### ยง 17.108 Copayments for inpatient hospital care and outpatient medical care.
###### Veterans not subject to copayment requirements for inpatient hospital care or outpatient medical care.

(d)The following veterans are not subject to the copayment requirements of this section:

(1) A veteran with a compensable service-connected disability.

(2) A veteran who is a former prisoner of war.

(3) A veteran awarded a Purple Heart.

(4) A veteran who was discharged or released from active military service for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty;

(5) A veteran who receives disability compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1151.

(6) A veteran whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1151, but only to the extent that the veteran's continuing eligibility for care is provided for in the judgment or settlement described in 38 U.S.C. 1151.

(7) A veteran whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended because of the receipt of military retirement pay.

(8) A veteran of the Mexican border period or of World War I.

(9) A military retiree provided care under an interagency agreement as defined in section 113 of Public Law 106-117, 113 Stat. 1545.

(10) A veteran who VA determines to be unable to defray the expenses of necessary care under 38 U.S.C. 1722(a).

(11) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e).

(12) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to ยง 17.109.

(13) A veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.

(14) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), for inpatient hospital care or outpatient medical care provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (d)(14)(i) through (vi) of this section:

(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;

(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;

(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;

(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;

(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or

(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:

(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;

(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;

(C) Is considered by the Department of Interior to be an Indian for any purpose; or

(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
