
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Copayments
##### ยง 17.110 Copayments for medication.
###### Medication not subject to the copayment requirements.

(c)The following are exempt from the copayment requirements of this section:

(1) Medication for a veteran who has a service-connected disability rated 50% or more based on a service-connected disability or unemployability.

(2) Medication for a veteran's service-connected disability.

(3) Medication for a veteran whose annual income (as determined under 38 U.S.C. 1503) does not exceed the maximum annual rate of VA pension which would be payable to such veteran if such veteran were eligible for pension under 38 U.S.C. 1521.

(4) Medication authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Persian Gulf War veterans, post-Persian Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to ยง 17.400.

(5) Medication for treatment of sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720D.

(6) Medication for treatment of cancer of the head or neck authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E.

(7) Medications provided as part of a VA approved research project authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7303.

(8) Medication for a veteran who is a former prisoner of war.

(9) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e).

(10) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to ยง 17.109.

(11) Medication for a veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.

(12) Opioid antagonists furnished to a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose.

(i) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(12), a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose is a veteran:

(A) Who is prescribed or using opioids, or has an opioid use history, and who is at increased risk for opioid overdose as determined by VA; or

(B) Whose provider deems, based on their clinical judgment, that the veteran may benefit from ready availability of an opioid antagonist.

(ii) Examples of a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) A veteran with an opioid or substance use disorder diagnosis;

(B) A veteran receiving treatment for an opioid or substance use disorder diagnosis, such as receiving opioid agonist therapy or inpatient, residential, or outpatient treatment for such diagnosis, or attending a support group for such diagnosis;

(C) A veteran with a history of prescription opioid misuse or injection opioid use;

(D) A veteran with a history of previous opioid overdose;

(E) A veteran who is taking an extended-release or long-acting prescription opioid;
