
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Copayments
##### § 17.111 Copayments for extended care services.
###### Copayments.

(b)(1) Unless exempted under paragraph (f) of this section, as a condition of receiving extended care services from VA, a veteran must agree to pay VA and is obligated to pay VA a copayment as specified by this section. A veteran has no obligation to pay a copayment for the first 21 days of extended care services that VA provided the veteran in any 12-month period (the 12-month period begins on the date that VA first provided extended care services to the veteran). However, for each day that extended care services are provided beyond the first 21 days, a veteran is obligated to pay VA the copayment amount set forth below to the extent the veteran has available resources. Available resources are based on monthly calculations, as determined under paragraph (d) of this section. The following sets forth the extended care services provided by VA and the corresponding copayment amount per day:

(i) Adult day health care-$15.

(ii) Domiciliary care-$5.

(iii) Institutional respite care-$97.

(iv) Institutional geriatric evaluation-$97.

(v) Non-institutional geriatric evaluation-$15.

(vi) Non-institutional respite care-$15.

(vii) Nursing home care-$97.

(2) For purposes of counting the number of days for which a veteran is obligated to make a copayment under this section, VA will count each day that adult day health care, non-institutional geriatric evaluation, and non-institutional respite care are provided and will count each full day and partial day for each inpatient stay except for the day of discharge.

(3) For hospital care and medical services considered non-institutional care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, as well as extended care services furnished through the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
