
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Copayments
##### ยง 17.111 Copayments for extended care services.
###### Veterans and care that are not subject to the copayment requirements.

(f)The following veterans and care are not subject to the copayment requirements of this section:

(1) A veteran with a compensable service-connected disability.

(2) A veteran whose annual income (determined under 38 U.S.C. 1503) is less than the amount in effect under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b).

(3) Care for a veteran's noncompensable zero percent service-connected disability.

(4) An episode of extended care services that began on or before November 30, 1999.

(5) Care authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Persian Gulf War veterans,post-Persian Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to ยง 17.400.

(6) Care for treatment of sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720D.

(7) Care or services authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E for certain veterans regarding cancer of the head or neck.

(8) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e), is exempt from copayments for adult day health care, non-institutional respite care, and non-institutional geriatric care.

(9) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to ยง 17.109.

(10) A veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.

(11) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), is exempt from copayments for noninstitutional extended care including adult day health care, noninstitutional respite care, and noninstitutional geriatric evaluation provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (f)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section:

(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;

(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;

(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;

(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;

(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or

(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:

(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;

(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;

(C) Is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose; or

(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
