
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Dental Services
##### ยง 17.161 Authorization of outpatient dental treatment.
###### Class II.

(b)(1)(i) Those having a service-connected noncompensable dental condition or disability shown to have been in existence at time of discharge or release from active service, which took place after September 30, 1981, may be authorized any treatment indicated as reasonably necessary for the one-time correction of the service-connected noncompensable condition, but only if:

(A) They served on active duty during the Persian Gulf War and were discharged or released, under conditions other than dishonorable, from a period of active military, naval, or air service of not less than 90 days, or they were discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable, from any other period of active military, naval, or air service of not less than 180 days;

(B) Application for treatment is made within 180 days after such discharge or release.

(C) The certificate of discharge or release does not bear a certification that the veteran was provided, within the 90-day period immediately before such discharge or release, a complete dental examination (including dental X-rays) and all appropriate dental treatment indicated by the examination to be needed, and

(D) Department of Veterans Affairs dental examination is completed within six months after discharge or release, unless delayed through no fault of the veteran.

(ii) Those veterans discharged from their final period of service after August 12, 1981, who had reentered active military service within 90 days after the date of a discharge or release from a prior period of active military service, may apply for treatment of service-connected noncompensable dental conditions relating to any such periods of service within 180 days from the date of their final discharge or release.

(iii) If a disqualifying discharge or release has been corrected by competent authority, application may be made within 180 days after the date of correction.

(2)(i) Those having a service-connected noncompensable dental condition or disability shown to have been in existence at time of discharge or release from active service, which took place before October 1, 1981, may be authorized any treatment indicated as reasonably necessary for the one-time correction of the service-connected noncompensable condition, but only if:

(A) They were discharged or released, under conditions other than dishonorable, from a period of active military, naval or air service of not less than 180 days.

(B) Application for treatment is made within one year after such discharge or release.

(C) Department of Veterans Affairs dental examination is completed within 14 months after discharge or release, unless delayed through no fault of the veteran.

(ii) Those veterans discharged from their final period of service before August 13, 1981, who had reentered active military service within one year from the date of a prior discharge or release, may apply for treatment of service-connected noncompensable dental conditions relating to any such prior periods of service within one year of their final discharge or release.

(iii) If a disqualifying discharge or release has been corrected by competent authority, application may be made within one year after the date of correction.
