
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) - Medical Care for Survivors and Dependents of Certain Veterans
##### ยง 17.270 General provisions and definitions.
###### Overview of CHAMPVA.

(a)CHAMPVA is the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Generally, CHAMPVA furnishes medical care in the same or similar manner, and subject to the same or similar limitations, as medical care furnished to certain dependents and survivors of active duty and retired members of the Armed Forces under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code (CHAMPUS), commonly referred to as the TRICARE Select plan. Under CHAMPVA, VA shares the cost of medically necessary services and supplies with eligible beneficiaries within the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. territories, and abroad. Under CHAMPVA, medical services and supplies may be provided as follows:

(1) By an authorized non-VA provider.

(2) By a VA provider at a VA facility, on a resource-available basis through the CHAMPVA In-house Treatment Initiative (CITI) to CHAMPVA beneficiaries who are not also eligible for Medicare.

(3) Through VA Medications by Mail (MbM).

(i) Only CHAMPVA beneficiaries who do not have any other type of health insurance that pays for prescriptions, including Medicare Part D, may use MbM.

(ii) Smoking cessation pharmaceutical supplies will only be provided through MbM and only to CHAMPVA beneficiaries that are not also eligible for Medicare.
