
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) - Medical Care for Survivors and Dependents of Certain Veterans
##### ยง 17.272 Benefits limitations/exclusions.
###### 9

() Urinalysis.

(C) Additional services or visits required because of specific findings or because the particular circumstances of the individual case are covered if medically necessary and otherwise authorized for benefits under CHAMPVA.

(ii) Rabies vaccine following an animal bite.

(iii) Tetanus vaccine following an accidental injury.

(iv) Rh immune globulin.

(v) Cervical cancer screening.

(vi) Breast cancer screening.

(vii) Genetic testing and counseling determined to be medically necessary.

(viii) Chromosome analysis in cases of habitual abortion or infertility.

(ix) Gamma globulin.

(x) School-required physical examinations for beneficiaries through age 17 that are provided on or after October 1, 2001.

(xi) Colorectal cancer screening.

(xii) Prostate cancer screening.

(xiii) Annual physical examination.

(xiv) Vaccinations/immunizations.

(31) Chiropractic and naturopathic services.

(32) Counseling services that are not medically necessary in the treatment of a diagnosed medical condition (such as educational counseling; vocational counseling; and counseling for socioeconomic purposes, stress management, life style modification, etc.).

(33) Acupuncture, whether used as a therapeutic agent or as an anesthetic.

(34) Hair transplants, wigs, or hairpieces, except that benefits may be extended for one wig or hairpiece per beneficiary (lifetime maximum) when the attending physician certifies that alopecia has resulted from treatment of malignant disease and the beneficiary certifies that a wig or hairpiece has not been obtained previously through the U.S. Government (including the Department of Veterans Affairs). The wig or hairpiece benefit does not include coverage for the following:

(i) Maintenance, wig or hairpiece supplies, or replacement of the wig or hairpiece.

(ii) Hair transplant or any other surgical procedure involving the attachment of hair or a wig or hairpiece to the scalp.

(iii) Any diagnostic or therapeutic method or supply intended to encourage hair growth.

(35) Self-help, academic education or vocational training services and supplies.

(36) Exercise equipment, spas, whirlpools, hot tubs, swimming pools, health club membership or other such charges or items.

(37) General exercise programs, even if recommended by a physician.

(38) Eye exercises or visual training (orthoptics).

(39) Eye and hearing examinations except when rendered in connection with medical or surgical treatment of a covered illness or injury or in connection with well-child care.

(40) Eyeglasses, spectacles, contact lenses, or other optical devices with the following exceptions:

(i) When necessary to perform the function of the human lens, lost as a result of intraocular surgery, ocular injury or congenital absence.

(ii) Pinhole glasses prescribed for use after surgery for detached retina.

(iii) Lenses prescribed as "treatment" instead of surgery for the following conditions:

(A) Contact lenses used for treatment of infantile glaucoma.

(B) Corneal or scleral lenses prescribed in connection with treatment of keratoconus.

(C) Scleral lenses prescribed to retain moisture when normal tearing is not present or is inadequate.

(D) Corneal or scleral lenses prescribed to reduce a corneal irregularity other than astigmatism.

(iv) The specified benefits are limited to one set of lenses related to one qualifying eye condition as set forth in paragraphs (a)(40)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section. If there is a prescription change requiring a new set of lenses, but still related to the qualifying eye condition, benefits may be extended for a second set of lenses, subject to medical review.

(41) Hearing aids or other auditory sensory enhancing devices.

(42) Prostheses with the following exceptions:

(i) Dental prostheses specifically required in connection with otherwise covered orthodontia directly related to the surgical correction of a cleft palate anomaly.

(ii) Any prostheses, other than dental prostheses, determined to be medically necessary because of significant conditions resulting from trauma, congenital anomalies, or disease, including, but not limited to:

(A) Artificial limbs.

(B) Voice prostheses.

(C) Eyes.

(D) Items surgically inserted in the body as an integral part of a surgical procedure.

(E) Ears, noses, and fingers.

(43) Orthopedic shoes, arch supports, shoe inserts, and other supportive devices for the feet, including special ordered, custom-made built-up shoes, or regular shoes later built up with the following exceptions:

(i) Shoes that are an integral part of an orthopedic brace, and which cannot be used separately from the brace.

(ii) Extra-depth shoes with inserts or custom molded shoes with inserts for individuals with diabetes.

(44) Services or advice rendered by telephone are excluded except that a diagnostic or monitoring procedure which incorporates electronic transmission of data or remote detection and measurement of a condition, activity, or function (biotelemetry) is covered when:

(i) The procedure, without electronic data transmission, is a covered benefit; and

(ii) The addition of electronic data transmission or biotelemetry improves the management of a clinical condition in defined circumstances; and

(iii) The electronic data or biotelemetry device has been classified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, either separately or as part of a system, for use consistent with the medical condition and clinical management of such condition.

(45) Air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and purifiers.

(46) Elevators.

(47) Alterations to living spaces or permanent features attached thereto, even when necessary to accommodate installation of covered durable medical equipment or to facilitate entrance or exit.

(48) Items of clothing, even if required by virtue of an allergy (such as cotton fabric versus synthetic fabric and vegetable-dyed shoes).

(49) Food, food substitutes, vitamins or other nutritional supplements, including those related to care for a home patient whose condition permits oral feeding, except for prenatal vitamins which are medically necessary as a component of prenatal care and prescribed by a VA provider or an authorized non-VA provider as defined in ยง 17.270 of this part.

(50) Enuretic (bed-wetting) conditioning programs.

(51) Autopsy and post-mortem examinations.

(52) All camping, even when organized for a specific therapeutic purpose (such as diabetic camp or a camp for emotionally disturbed children), or when offered as a part of an otherwise covered treatment plan.

(53) Housekeeping, homemaker, or attendant services, including a sitter or companion.

(54) Personal comfort or convenience items, such as beauty and barber services, radio, television, and telephone.

(55) Megavitamin psychiatric therapy; orthomolecular psychiatric therapy.

(56) All transportation except for specialized transportation with life sustaining equipment, when medically required for the treatment of a covered condition.

(57) Unless a waiver for extended coverage is granted in advance: Inpatient mental health services in excess of 30 days in any calendar year (or in an admission), in the case of a patient 19 years of age or older; 45 days in any calendar year (or in an admission), in the case of a patient under 19 years of age; or 150 days of residential treatment care in any calendar year (or in an admission).

(58) Outpatient mental health services in excess of 23 visits in a calendar year unless a waiver for extended coverage is granted in advance.

(59) Institutional services for partial hospitalization in excess of 60 treatment days in any calendar year (or in an admission) unless a waiver for extended coverage is granted in advance.

(60) Detoxification in a hospital setting or rehabilitation facility in excess of seven days.

(61) Outpatient substance abuse services in excess of 60 visits during a benefit period. A benefit period begins with the first date of covered service and ends 365 days later.

(62) Family therapy for substance abuse in excess of 15 visits during a benefit period. A benefit period begins with the first date of covered service and ends 365 days later.

(63) Services that are provided to a beneficiary who is referred to a provider of such services by a provider who has an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is referred, unless a waiver is granted.

(64) Abortions, except when:

(i) The life or the health of the pregnant beneficiary would be endangered if the pregnancy were carried to term; or

(ii) The pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest. Self-reporting from the pregnant beneficiary constitutes sufficient evidence that an act of rape or incest occurred.

(65) Aversion therapy.

(66) Rental or purchase of biofeedback equipment.

(67) Biofeedback therapy for treatment of ordinary muscle tension states (including tension headaches) or for psychosomatic conditions.

(68) Immunotherapy for malignant diseases except for treatment of Stage O and Stage A carcinoma of the bladder.

(69) Services and supplies provided by other than a hospital, such as nonskilled nursing homes, intermediate care facilities, halfway houses, homes for the aged, or other institutions of similar purpose.

(70) Services performed when the patient is not physically present.

(71) Medical photography.

(72) Special tutoring.

(73) Surgery for psychological reasons.

(74) Treatment of premenstrual syndrome (PMS).

(75) Over-the-counter products except for pharmaceutical smoking cessation supplies that are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, prescribed, and provided through MbM, and insulin and related diabetic testing supplies and syringes.

(76) Thermography.

(77) Removal of tattoos.

(78) Penile implant/testicular prosthesis procedures and related supplies for psychological impotence.

(79) Dermabrasion of the face except in those cases where coverage has been authorized for reconstructive or plastic surgery required to restore body form following an accidental injury or to revise disfiguring and extensive scars resulting from neoplastic surgery.

(80) Chemical peeling for facial wrinkles.

(81) Panniculectomy, body sculpting procedures.

(82) Medications not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), excluding FDA exceptions to the approval requirement.

(83) Services and supplies related to the treatment of dyslexia.

(b) Costs of services and supplies to the extent such amounts are billed over the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount are specifically excluded from coverage.

(1) The CHAMPVA determined allowable amount is the maximum level of payment by CHAMPVA to an authorized non-VA provider for the provision of CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies to a CHAMPVA beneficiary. The CHAMPVA determined allowable amount is determined before consideration of cost sharing and the application of deductibles or OHI.

(2) A Medicare-participating hospital must accept the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount for inpatient services provided to a CHAMPVA beneficiary as payment in full. See 42 CFR 489.25.
