
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) - Medical Care for Survivors and Dependents of Certain Veterans
##### ยง 17.276 Claim filing deadline.

(a) Unless an exception is granted under paragraph (b) of this section, claims for medical services and supplies must be filed no later than:

(1) One year after the date of service; or

(2) In the case of inpatient care, one year after the date of discharge; or

(3) In the case of retroactive approval for medical services/supplies, 180 days following beneficiary notification of authorization; or

(4) In the case of retroactive approval of CHAMPVA eligibility, 180 days following notification to the beneficiary of authorization for services occurring on or after the date of first eligibility.

(b) Requests for an exception to the claim filing deadline must be submitted in writing and include a complete explanation of the circumstances resulting in late filing along with all available supporting documentation. Each request for an exception to the claim filing deadline will be reviewed individually and considered on its own merit. VA may grant exceptions to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section if it determines that there was good cause for missing the filing deadline. For example, when dual coverage exists, CHAMPVA payment, if any, cannot be determined until after the primary insurance carrier has adjudicated the claim. In such circumstances an exception may be granted provided that the delay on the part of the primary insurance carrier is not attributable to the beneficiary. Delays due to provider billing procedures do not constitute a valid basis for an exception.

(c) Claims for CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies provided before the date of the event that qualifies an individual under ยง 17.271 are not reimbursable.

(d) CHAMPVA is the last payer to OHI, as that term is defined in ยง 17.270(b). CHAMPVA benefits will generally not be paid until the claim has been filed with the OHI and the OHI has issued a final payment determination or explanation of benefits. CHAMPVA is secondary payer to Medicare per the terms of ยง 17.271(b).
