
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) - Medical Care for Survivors and Dependents of Certain Veterans
##### ยง 17.277 Appeals.

(a) This section applies only to legacy claims.

(b) Notice of the initial determination regarding payment of CHAMPVA benefits will be provided to the CHAMPVA beneficiary on a CHAMPVA Explanation of Benefits (EOB) form. The EOB form is generated by the CHAMPVA automated payment processing system. If a CHAMPVA beneficiary or provider disagrees with the determination concerning CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies or calculation of benefits, he or she may request reconsideration. Such requests must be submitted to VA in writing within one year of the date of the initial determination. The request must state why the CHAMPVA claimant believes the decision is in error and must include any new and relevant information not previously considered. Any request for reconsideration that does not identify the reason for dispute will be returned to the claimant without further consideration. After reviewing the claim and any relevant supporting documentation, VA will issue a written determination to the claimant that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. If the claimant is still dissatisfied, within 90 days of the date of the decision he or she may make a written request for review by VA. After reviewing the claim and any relevant supporting documentation, VA will issue a written determination to the claimant that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. The decision of VA with respect to benefit coverage and computation of benefits is final. When a CHAMPVA beneficiary has other health insurance (OHI), an appeal must first be filed with the OHI, and a determination made, before submitting the appeal to CHAMPVA with limited exceptions such as if the OHI deems the issue non-appealable. Denial of CHAMPVA benefits based on legal eligibility requirements may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals in accordance with 38 CFR part 20. Medical determinations are not appealable to the Board. 38 CFR 20.101.
