
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### In Vitro Fertilization and Reimbursement of Adoption Expenses
##### ยง 17.390 Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses incurred by certain veterans.
###### Definitions.

(c)For the purposes of this section:

(1) "Covered veteran" means a veteran with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment.

(2) "Qualifying adoption expenses" means reasonable and necessary expenses that are directly related to the legal adoption of a child under 18 years of age, but only if such adoption is arranged by a qualified adoption agency. Such term does not include any expense incurred:

(i) For items such as clothing, bedding, toys and books;

(ii) For travel; or

(iii) In connection with an adoption arranged in violation of Federal, State, or local law.

(3) "Reasonable and necessary expenses" include:

(i) Public and private agency fees, including adoption fees charged by an agency in a foreign country;

(ii) Placement fees, including fees charged to adoptive parents for counseling;

(iii) Legal fees (including court costs) or notary expenses;

(iv) Medical expenses, including hospital expenses of the biological mother and medical care of the child to be adopted; and

(v) Temporary foster care charges when payment of such charges is required before the adoptive child's placement.

(4) "Qualified adoption agency" means any of the following:

(i) A State or local government agency which has responsibility under State or local law for child placement through adoption.

(ii) A nonprofit, voluntary adoption agency which is authorized by State or local law to place children for adoption.

(iii) Any other source authorized by a State to provide adoption placement if the adoption is supervised by a court under State or local law.

(iv) A foreign government or an agency authorized by a foreign government to place children for adoption, in any case in which:

(A) The adopted child is entitled to automatic citizenship under section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1431); or

(B) A certificate of citizenship has been issued for such child under section 322 of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1433).
