
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### In Vitro Fertilization and Reimbursement of Adoption Expenses
##### ยง 17.390 Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses incurred by certain veterans.
###### Applying for reimbursement of qualifying adoption

(d)expenses. An application for reimbursement must be submitted on a form prescribed for such purpose by VA. Information and documentation must include:

(1) A copy of the final adoption decree, certificate or court order granting the adoption. For U.S. adoptions, the court order must be signed by a judge unless either State law or local court rules authorize that the adoption order may be signed by a commissioner, magistrate or court referee. The covered veteran must submit a full English translation of any foreign language document, to include the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate the foreign language to English and that his or her translation is complete and correct.

(2) For foreign adoptions, proof of U.S. citizenship of the child, including any of the following:

(i) A copy of Certificate of Citizenship.

(ii) A copy of a U.S. court order that recognizes the foreign adoption, or documents the re-adopting of the child in the United States.

(iii) A letter from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which states the status of the child's adoption.

(iv) A copy of the child's U.S. passport (page with personal information only).

(3) For U.S. adoptions, documentation to show that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency or other source authorized by a State or local law to provide adoption placement. Acceptable forms of proof that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency include:

(i) A copy of placement agreement from the adoption agency showing the agreement entered into between the member and the agency.

(ii) A letter from the adoption agency stating that the agency arranged the adoption and that the agency is a licensed child placing agency in the United States.
