
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### In Vitro Fertilization and Reimbursement of Adoption Expenses
##### ยง 17.390 Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses incurred by certain veterans.
###### e.g.,

(iii) Receipts for payment to the adoption agency, as well as proof, (a copy of the agency's web page), of the agency's status as a for-profit or non-profit licensed child placing agency.

(4) For foreign adoptions, documentation to show that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency. In addition to the forms of acceptable proof that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency listed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the documentation must also include:

(i) A document that describes the mission of the foreign agency and its authority from the foreign government to place children for adoption; and

(ii) A placement agreement from the adoption agency or letter from the adoption agency stating the specific services it provided for the adoption.

(5) Documentation to substantiate reasonable and necessary expenses paid by the covered veteran. Acceptable forms of documentation include receipts, cancelled checks, or a letter from the adoption agency showing the amount paid by the member. Receipts from a foreign entity should include the U.S. currency equivalency. Reconstruction of expense records is permissible when the original records are unavailable and the covered veteran submits a notarized affidavit stating the costs.

(6) Checking or savings account information to facilitate VA providing reimbursement to the covered veteran under this section.
