
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Hospital Care, Medical Services, and Other Services for Live Donors
##### ยง 17.395 Transplant procedures with live donors, and related services.
###### Hospital care and medical services.

(c)To obtain a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow for a VA transplant candidate, VA may provide the following hospital care and medical services to a prospective live donor or live donor:

(1) Before removal of a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow, VA will provide examinations, tests, and studies necessary to qualify a prospective live donor to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow.

(2) During removal of a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow, VA will provide the surgical procedure to remove a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow from the living donor whose solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow will be transplanted into an intended recipient.

(3) After removal of a solid organ or part of a solid organ, VA will provide all hospital care, medical services, and other services which are necessary and appropriate to live donor follow-up as defined in paragraph (b) of this section for a period not less than that which the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network prescribes or recommends or for a period of 2 years, whichever is greater.

(4) After bone marrow removal, VA will provide direct medical care required to address reasonably foreseeable live donor health complications resulting directly from the bone marrow donation procedure for a period not greater than 2 years.

(5) A prospective live donor who is also a veteran enrolled in VA's health care system may receive care and services authorized in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) only under this section. A live donor who is also a veteran enrolled in VA's health care system may opt to receive the care and services authorized under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) under either the medical benefits package codified at ยง 17.38 or under this section, but not both at the same time.
