
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program
##### ยง 17.549 Award procedures.
###### Amount of funds.

(c)VA will provide a scholarship to individuals who participate in the RCSSP to cover the actual costs of such individuals obtaining a terminal degree in psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or professional mental health counseling for a maximum of two years. If a participant completes their terminal degree in less than two years, the period of obligated service remains unchanged.

(1) Social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling are master level programs that require approximately a two-year period for achieving the terminal degree. VA will fund RCSSP social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling participants for a maximum of two years.

(2) Psychology is a doctoral level program requiring approximately five years for completion of the terminal academic degree. In addition, psychology graduates are required to undergo a one-year internship at either an American Psychology Association (APA) or Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) accredited internship program prior to qualifying for full time VA employment. VA will fund psychology participants for the last two years of their five-year academic training to obtain a terminal doctorate degree. VA will not provide funding for the one-year APA or CPA internship under the RCSSP.
