
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Standards for Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1.923 Administrative wage garnishment.
###### et seq.

(7) The hearing official shall issue a written decision as soon as practicable, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for such hearing was received by VA or Treasury. The decision will be the final action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701). The decision shall include:

(i) A summary of the facts presented;

(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions, and;

(iii) The terms of the repayment schedule, if applicable.

(d) In accordance with 31 CFR 285.11(g) and (h), VA or Treasury shall send a Treasury-approved withholding order and certification form by first class mail to the debtor's employer within 30 days after the debtor fails to make a timely request for a hearing. If a timely request for a hearing has been filed by the debtor, then VA or Treasury shall send a withholding order and certification form by first class mail to the debtor's employer within 30 days after a final decision is made to proceed with the garnishment. The employer shall complete and return the certification form as described in 31 CFR 285.11(h).

(e) After receipt of the garnishment order, the employer shall withhold the amount of garnishment as described in 31 CFR 285.11(i) from all disposable pay payable to the applicable debtor during each pay period.

(f) A debtor whose wages are subject to a wage withholding order under 31 CFR 285.11 may request a review, under the procedures set forth in 31 CFR 285.11(k), of the amount garnished. A request for review shall only be considered after garnishment has been initiated. The request must be based on materially changed circumstances such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness which result in financial hardship that limit the debtor's ability to provide food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care for himself/herself and his/her dependents.
