
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Emergent Suicide Care
##### ยง 17.1225 Payment or reimbursement for emergent suicide care.

(a) VA will not charge individuals eligible under ยง 17.1210 who receive care under ยง 17.1215 any costs for such care.

(1) For care furnished in a VA facility, VA will not charge any copayment or other costs that would otherwise be applicable under 38 CFR chapter 17.

(2) For care furnished in a non-VA facility, VA will either:

(i) Pay for the care furnished, subject to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; or

(ii) Reimburse an individual eligible under ยง 17.1210 for the costs incurred by the individual for the care received, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) The amounts paid by VA for care furnished under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section will:

(1) Be established pursuant to contracts, or agreements, or

(2) If there is no amount determinable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, VA will pay the following amounts:

(i) For care furnished in Alaska for which a VA Alaska Fee Schedule (see 38 CFR 17.56(b)) code and amount exists: The lesser of billed charges or the VA Alaska Fee Schedule amount. The VA Alaska Fee Schedule only applies to physician and non-physician professional services. The schedule uses the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act mandated national standard coding sets.

(ii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and for which an applicable Medicare fee schedule or prospective payment system amount exists for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities) (hereafter "Medicare rate"): The lesser of billed charges or the applicable Medicare rate.

(iii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, furnished by a facility currently designated as a Critical Access Hospital (CAH) by CMS, and for which a specific amount is determinable under the following methodology: The lesser of billed charges or the applicable CAH rate verified by VA. Data requested by VA to support the applicable CAH rate shall be provided upon request. Billed charges are not relevant for purposes of determining whether a specific amount is determinable under the above methodology.
