
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Standards for Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1.929 Reduction of debt through performance of work-study services.
###### Contract to perform services.

(d)(1) The work-study services performed to reduce indebtedness shall be performed pursuant to a contract between the individual and VA.

(2) The individual shall perform the work-study services required by the contract at the place or places designated by VA.

(3) The number of hours of services to be performed under the contract must be sufficient to enable the individual to become entitled to a sum large enough to liquidate the debt by offset.

(4) The number of weeks in the contract will not exceed the lesser of-

(i) The number of weeks of services the individual needs to perform to liquidate his or her debt; or

(ii) 52.

(5) In determining the number of hours per week and the number of weeks under paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section necessary to liquidate the debt, VA will use the amount of the account receivable, including all accrued interest, administrative costs and marshall fees outstanding on the date the contract is offered to the individual and all accrued interest, administrative costs and marshall fees VA estimates will have become outstanding on the debt on the date the debt is to be liquidated.

(6) The contract will automatically terminate after the total amount of the individual's indebtedness described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section has been recouped, waived, or otherwise liquidated. An individual performing work-study services under a contract to liquidate a debt is released from the contract if the debt is liquidated by other means.

(7) The contract to perform work-study services for the purpose of liquidating indebtedness will be terminated if:

(i) The individual is liquidating his or her debt under this section while receiving either an educational assistance allowance for further pursuit of a program of education or a subsistence allowance for further pursuit of a program of rehabilitation;

(ii) The individual terminates or reduces the rate of pursuit of his or her program of education or rehabilitation; and

(iii) The termination or reduction causes an account receivable as a debt owed by the individual.

(8) VA may terminate the contract at any time the individual fails to perform the services required by the contract in a satisfactory manner.
