
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Expanded Access to Non-VA Care Through the Veterans Choice Program
##### ยง 17.1510 Eligible veterans.
###### www.va.gov/health/surgery

(i) In a state without a VA medical facility that provides hospital care, emergency medical services, and surgical care having a surgical complexity of standard (VA maintains a Web site with a list of the facilities that have been designated with at least a surgical complexity of standard. That Web site can be accessed here:); and

(ii) More than 20 miles from a medical facility described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) The veteran's residence is in a location, other than one in Guam, American Samoa, or the Republic of the Philippines, which is 40 miles or less from a VA medical facility and the veteran:

(i) Must travel by air, boat, or ferry to reach such a VA medical facility; or

(ii) Faces an unusual or excessive burden in traveling to such a VA medical facility based on geographical challenges, such as the presence of a body of water (including moving water and still water) or a geologic formation that cannot be crossed by road; environmental factors, such as roads that are not accessible to the general public, traffic, or hazardous weather; a medical condition that affects the ability to travel; or other factors, as determined by VA, including but not limited to:

(A) The nature or simplicity of the hospital care or medical services the veteran requires;

(B) The frequency that such hospital care or medical services need to be furnished to the veteran; and

(C) The need for an attendant, which is defined as a person who provides required aid and/or physical assistance to the veteran, for a veteran to travel to a VA medical facility for hospital care or medical services.

(c) If the veteran changes his or her residence, the veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.

(d) A veteran must provide to VA information on any health-care plan under which the veteran is covered prior to obtaining authorization for care under the Veterans Choice Program. If the veteran changes health-care plans, the veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.

(e) For purposes of calculating the distance between a veteran's residence and the nearest VA medical facility under this section, VA will use the driving distance between the nearest VA medical facility and a veteran's residence. VA will calculate a veteran's driving distance using geographic information system software.
