
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Expanded Access to Non-VA Care Through the Veterans Choice Program
##### § 17.1535 Payment rates and methodologies.
###### Payment rates.

(a)Payment rates will be negotiated and set forth in an agreement between the Secretary and an eligible entity or provider.

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates may not exceed the rates paid by the United States to a provider of services (as defined in section 1861(u) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(u)) or a supplier (as defined in section 1861(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(d)) under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) for the same care or services. These rates are known as the "Medicare Fee Schedule" for VA purposes.

(2) For eligible entities or providers in highly rural areas, the Secretary may enter into an agreement that includes a rate greater than the rate defined paragraph (a)(1) of this section for hospital care or medical services, so long as such rate is still determined by VA to be fair and reasonable. The term "highly rural area" means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.

(3) For eligible entities or providers in Alaska, the Secretary may enter into agreements at rates established under §§ 17.55(j) and 17.56(b).

(4) For eligible entities or providers in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under the Social Security Act that became effective on January 1, 2014, payment rates will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.

(5) When there are no available rates as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall, to the extent consistent with the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, follow the process and methodology outlined in §§ 17.55 and 17.56 and pay the resulting rate.
