
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Prosthetic and Rehabilitative Items and Services
##### § 17.3230 Authorized items and services.

(a)(1) VA will provide veterans eligible under § 17.3220 with the following items and services if VA determines that such items and services are needed under § 17.38(b), serve as a direct and active component of the veteran's medical treatment and rehabilitation, and do not solely support the comfort or convenience of the veteran:

(i) Adaptive household items.

(ii) Adaptive recreation equipment.

(iii) Cognitive devices.

(iv) Communication devices.

(v) Home exercise equipment, where such equipment will only be provided for one location, the veteran's primary residence, unless it is clinically determined that the equipment should be provided at the veteran's non-primary residence instead of the veteran's primary residence. Prior to any installation of home exercise equipment, the owner of the residence must agree to the installation. Such equipment will only be provided to achieve the veteran's rehabilitation goals as documented in the veteran's medical record.

(vi) Home medical equipment, and if required, installation that does not amount to an improvement or structural alteration to a veteran's residence. Such equipment will only be provided for one location, the veteran's primary residence, unless it is clinically determined that the equipment should be provided at the veteran's non-primary residence instead of the veteran's primary residence. Prior to any installation of home medical equipment, the owner of the residence must agree to the installation.

(vii) Home respiratory equipment.

(viii) Implants.

(ix) Mobility aids.

(x) Orthotic devices.

(xi) Prosthetic devices.

(xii) Repairs to items provided under paragraph (a) of this section, even if the item was not initially prescribed by VA, unless VA determines to replace the item for cost or clinical reasons.

(xiii) Replacement items, if items provided under this section have been damaged, destroyed, lost, or stolen, or if replacement is clinically indicated, subject to the following: Items that are serviceable, and that still meet the veteran's need, will not be replaced for the sole purpose of obtaining a newer model of the same or similar item.

(xiv) Specialized clothing made necessary by the wearing of a prosthetic device.

(xv) Training with and fitting of prescribed items.

(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section supplements the requirement in § 17.38(b) for a determination of need but only with respect to the provision of items and services listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The exclusions under § 17.38(c) will apply to the items and services provided under this section. While VA will generally provide only one item under this section, the provision of spare items may be authorized based on a clinical determination of need using the criteria set forth in this section.

(b) Unless an item provided under § 17.3230(a) is loaned to the veteran based on a clinical determination that a loan is more beneficial for the veteran, such items become the property of the veteran once the veteran takes possession of those items. If the determination is that the item will be loaned to a veteran, the veteran must agree to the terms of the loan in order to receive the item.
