
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Community Care Program
##### ยง 17.4020 Authorized non-VA care.
###### Authorizing emergency treatment.

(c)This paragraph (c) applies only to emergency treatment furnished to a covered veteran by an eligible entity or provider when such treatment was not the subject of an election by a veteran under paragraph (a) of this section. This paragraph (c) does not affect eligibility for, or create any new rules or conditions affecting, reimbursement for emergency treatment under section 1725 or 1728 of title 38, United States Code.

(1) Under the conditions set forth in this paragraph (c), VA may authorize emergency treatment after it has been furnished to a covered veteran. For purposes of this paragraph (c), "emergency treatment" has the meaning defined in section 1725(f)(1) of title 38, United States Code.

(2) VA may only authorize emergency treatment under this paragraph (c) if the covered veteran, someone acting on the covered veteran's behalf, or the eligible entity or provider notifies VA within 72-hours of such care or services being furnished and VA approves the furnishing of such care or services under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) VA may approve emergency treatment of a covered veteran under this paragraph (c) only if:

(i) The veteran is receiving emergency treatment from an eligible entity or provider.

(ii) The notice to VA complies with the provisions of paragraph (c)(4) of this section and is submitted within 72 hours of the beginning of such treatment.

(iii) The emergency treatment only includes services covered by VA's medical benefits package in ยง 17.38.

(4) Notice to VA must:

(i) Be made to the appropriate VA official at the nearest VA facility;

(ii) Identify the covered veteran; and

(iii) Identify the eligible entity or provider.
