
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Community Care Program
##### ยง 17.4020 Authorized non-VA care.
###### Organ and bone marrow transplant care.

(d)(1) In the case of a covered veteran described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Secretary will determine whether to authorize an organ or bone marrow transplant for the covered veteran through an eligible entity or provider.

(2) The Secretary will make determinations under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the primary care provider of the veteran will make determinations concerning whether there is a medically compelling reason to travel outside the region of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network in which the veteran resides to receive a transplant, in consideration of, but not limited to, the following factors:

(i) Specific patient factors.

(ii) Which facilities meet VA's standards for quality, including quality metrics and outcomes, for the required transplant.

(iii) The travel burden on covered veterans based upon their medical conditions and the geographic location of eligible transplant centers.

(iv) The timeliness of transplant center evaluations and management.

(3) This paragraph (d) applies to covered veterans who meet one or more conditions of eligibility under ยง 17.4010(a) and:

(i) Require an organ or bone marrow transplant as determined by VA based upon generally-accepted medical criteria; and

(ii) Have, in the opinion of the primary care provider of the veteran, a medically compelling reason, as determined in consideration of the factors described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, to travel outside the region of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network in which the veteran resides, to receive such transplant.
