
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Community Care Program
##### § 17.4035 Payment rates.

The rates paid by VA for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services (hereafter referred to as "services") furnished pursuant to a procurement contract or an agreement authorized by §§ 17.4100 through 17.4135 will be the rates set forth in the terms of such contract or agreement. Such payment rates will comply with the following parameters:

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates will not exceed the applicable Medicare fee schedule (including but not limited to allowable rates under 42 U.S.C. 1395m) or prospective payment system amount (hereafter "Medicare rate"), if any, for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities).

(b) With respect to services furnished in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under section 1814(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395f(b)(3)) that became effective on or after January 1, 2014, the Medicare payment rates under paragraph (a) of this section will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.

(c) Payment rates for services furnished in a highly rural area may exceed the limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The term "highly rural area" means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.

(d) Payment rates may deviate from the parameters set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section when VA determines, based on patient needs, market analyses, health care provider qualifications, or other factors, that it is not practicable to limit payment for services to the rates available under paragraphs (a) through (c).

(e) Payment rates for services furnished in Alaska are not subject to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and will be set forth in the terms of the procurement contract or agreement authorized by §§ 17.4100 through 17.4135, pursuant to which such services are furnished. If no payment rate is set forth in the terms of such a contract or agreement pursuant to which such services are furnished, payment rates for services furnished in Alaska will follow the Alaska Fee Schedule of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
