
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Care Agreements
##### ยง 17.4110 Entity or provider certification.
###### Approval or denial of certification.

(2)(i) VA will review all information obtained by VA, including through applicable federal and state records systems and as submitted by the applicant, and will determine eligibility for certification.

(ii) An applicant must submit all information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(iii) VA will deny an application for certification if VA determines that the entity or provider is excluded from participation in a Federal health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f)) under section 1128 or 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a) or is identified as an excluded source on the System for Award Management Exclusions list described in part 9 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 180 of title 2 of such Code, or successor regulations.

(iv) VA will deny an application for certification if VA determines that the applicant is already barred from furnishing hospital care, medical services, and extended care services under chapter 17 of title 38, U.S.C., because VA has previously determined the applicant submitted to VA a fraudulent claim, as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1703D(i)(4), for payment for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.

(v) VA may deny an application for certification if VA determines that based on programmatic considerations, VA is unlikely to seek to enter into a Veterans Care Agreement with the applicant.

(vi) VA will issue a decision approving or denying an application for certification within 120 calendar days of receipt of such application, if practicable. Notices of approval will set forth the effective date and duration of the certification. Notices of denial will set forth the specific grounds for denial and supporting evidence. A denial constitutes VA's final decision on the application.
