
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Care Agreements
##### ยง 17.4110 Entity or provider certification.
###### Duration of certification and application for recertification.

(3)(i) An entity or provider's certification under this section lasts for a three-year period, unless VA revokes certification during that three-year period pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(ii) A certified entity or provider must maintain its eligibility throughout the period in which it is certified and must inform VA of any changes or events that would affect its eligibility within 30 calendar days of the change or event.

(iii) A certified entity or provider seeking certification after the end of its current three-year certification must apply for recertification at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of its current certification; otherwise, the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section will apply. Upon application for recertification by the entity or provider, including submitting any new or updated information within the scope of paragraph (b)(1) of this section that VA requests in conjunction with such application for recertification, VA will reassess the entity or provider under the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. VA will issue a decision approving or denying the application for recertification within 60 calendar days of receiving the application, if practicable. Notice of the decision will be furnished to the applicant in writing. Notices of recertification will set forth the effective date and duration of the certification. Notices of denial will set forth the specific grounds for denial and supporting evidence. A denial constitutes VA's final decision on the application for recertification.

(iv) If a certified entity or provider applies for recertification after the deadline in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, such application will constitute a new application for certification and will be processed in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
