
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 17 - MEDICAL
#### Veterans Care Agreements
##### ยง 17.4120 Payment rates.

The rates paid by VA for hospital care, medical services, and extended care services (hereafter in this section referred to as "services") furnished pursuant to a Veterans Care Agreement will be the rates set forth in the price terms of the Veterans Care Agreement. Each Veterans Care Agreement will contain price terms for all services within its scope. Such payment rates will comply with the following parameters:

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates will not exceed the applicable Medicare fee schedule or prospective payment system amount (hereafter in this section referred to as "Medicare rate"), if any, for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities).

(b) With respect to services furnished in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under section 1814(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395f(b)(3)) that became effective on or after January 1, 2014, the Medicare rate under paragraph (a) will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.

(c) Payment rates for services furnished in a highly rural area may exceed the limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The term "highly rural area" means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.

(d) Payment rates may deviate from the parameters set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section when VA determines, based on patient needs, market analyses, health care provider qualifications, or other factors, that it is not practicable to limit payment for services to the rates available under paragraphs (a) through (c).

(e) Payment rates for services furnished in Alaska are not subject to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
