
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Subpart A - General
##### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 18 - Statutory Provisions to Which This Subpart Applies

1. Payments to State homes (38 U.S.C. 1741-1743).

2. State home facilities for furnishing domiciliary, nursing home, and hospital care (38 U.S.C. 8131-8137).

3. Space and office facilities for representatives of recognized national organizations (38 U.S.C. 5902(a)(2)).

4. All-volunteer force educational assistance, Veteran Readiness and Employment, post-Vietnam era veterans' educational assistance, survivors' and dependents' educational assistance, and administration of educational benefits (38 U.S.C. Chapters 30, 31, 32, 34, 35 and 36, respectively).

5. Sharing of medical facilities, equipment, and information (38 U.S.C. 8151-8157).

6. Approval of educational institutions (38 U.S.C. 104).

7. Space and office facilities for representatives of State employment services (38 U.S.C. 7725(1)).

8. Medical care for survivors and dependents of certain veterans (38 U.S.C. 1713).

9. Transfers for nursing home care; adult day health care (38 U.S.C. 1720).

10. Treatment and rehabilitation for alcohol or drug dependence or abuse disabilities (38 U.S.C. 1720A).

11. Aid to States for establishment, expansion, and improvement of veterans cemeteries (38 U.S.C. 2408).

12. Assistance in establishing new medical schools; grants to affiliated medical schools; assistance to health manpower training institutions (38 U.S.C. Chapter 82).

13. Department of Veterans Affairs health professional scholarship program (38 U.S.C. 7601-7655).

14. Emergency veterans job training (Pub. L. 98-77, 97 Stat. 443-452).
