
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age
##### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 18.542 Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with VA alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, VA may extend this time limit. Complaints may be submitted to the Director, Office of Equal Opportunity (06B), Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420.

(b) VA will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:

(1) Acknowledging receipt and acceptance of a complaint in writing.

(2) Accepting as a sufficient complaint, any written statement which identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and is signed by the complainant.

(3) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.

(4) Widely disseminating information regarding the obligations of recipients under the Act and these regulations.

(5) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint procedure.

(6) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact VA for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.

(c) VA will refer a complaint of discrimination based on age to another appropriate Federal agency when the complaint is outside the jurisdiction of VA. VA will notify the complainant in writing that the complaint has been referred; explain the reason why the complaint is not within the jurisdiction of VA; and give the complainant the name, agency, and address of the official to whom the complaint was referred.
