
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age
##### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 18.546 Compliance procedure.

(a) VA may enforce the Act and these regulations through:

(1) Termination of Federal financial assistance from VA with respect to a recipient's program or activity that has violated the Act or these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge. Therefore, cases which are settled in mediation, or prior to a hearing, will not involve termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from VA.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or these regulations.

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.

(b) VA will limit any termination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the particular program or activity or part of such program or activity of a recipient that VA finds to be in violation of the Act or these regulations. VA will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from VA.

(c) VA will take no action under paragraph (a) of this section until:

(1) The Secretary has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Secretary has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Secretary will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) VA also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance from VA to a recipient when a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from VA includes all assistance for which VA requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from VA does not include increases in funding resulting solely from a change in the formula or method of computing awards, nor does it include assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) VA will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. VA will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Secretary. VA will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
