
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age
##### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 18 - Statutory Provisions to Which This Subpart Applies

1. Approval of educational institutions (38 U.S.C. 104).

2. Space and office facilities for representatives of State employment services (38 U.S.C. 7725(1)).

3. Medical care for survivors and dependents of certain veterans (38 U.S.C. 1713).

4. Transfers for nursing home care; adult day health care (38 U.S.C. 1720).

5. Treatment and rehabilitation for alcohol or drug dependence or abuse disabilities (38 U.S.C. 1720A).

6. Payments to State Homes (38 U.S.C. 1741-1743).

7. Aid to States for establishment, expansion, and improvement of veterans' cemeteries (38 U.S.C. 2408).

8. Veteran Readiness and Employment; Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance; Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance; and Administration of Educational Benefits (38 U.S.C. Chapters 31, 32, 34, 35 and 36 respectively).

9. Space and office facilities for representatives of recognized national organizations (38 U.S.C. 5902(a)(2)).

10. Department of Veterans Affairs Health Professional Scholarship Program (38 U.S.C. 7601-7655).

11. State Home Facilities for Furnishing Domiciliary, Nursing Home and Hospital Care (38 U.S.C. 8131-8137).

12. Sharing of Medical Facilities, Equipment and Information (38 U.S.C. 8151-8157).

13. Assistance in Establishing New State Medical Schools; Grants to Affiliated Medical Schools; Assistance to Health Manpower Training Institutions (38 U.S.C. Chapter 82).

14. Emergency Veterans' Job Training (Pub. L. 98-77, 97 Stat. 443-452).
