
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Referrals to GAO, Department of Justice, or IRS
##### § 1.957 Committee authority.
###### Compromises,Loan program debts

(2)-(i)(38 U.S.C. 3720(a)). Accept or reject a compromise offer irrespective of the amount of the debt (loan program matters under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 are unlimited as to amount).

(ii) Other than loan program debts (31 U.S.C. 3711).

(A) Accept or reject a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $1,000 but which is not over $100,000 (both amounts exclusive of interest and other late payment charges).

(B) Accept or reject a compromise offer on a debt of a $1,000 or less, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges, which is not disposed of by the Chief, Fiscal activity, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(C) Reject a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $100,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges.

(D) Recommend approval of a compromise offer on a debt which exceeds $100,000, exclusive of interest and other late payment charges. The authority to accept a compromise offer on such a debt rests solely within the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice. The Committee should evaluate a compromise offer on a debt in excess of $100,000, using the factors set forth in §§ 1.930 through 1.938. If the Committee believes that the compromise offer is advantageous to the government, then the Committee members shall so state this conclusion in a written memorandum of recommendation of approval to the Chairperson. This recommendation, along with a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR) completed in accordance with § 1.951, will be referred to VA Central Office, Office of Financial Management (047G7), for submission to the Department of Justice for final approval.
