
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Referrals to GAO, Department of Justice, or IRS
##### ยง 1.962 Waiver of overpayments.
###### overpayment

There shall be no collection of an overpayment, or any interest thereon, which results from participation in a benefit program administered under any law by VA when it is determined by a regional office Committee on Waivers and Compromises that collection would be against equity and good conscience. For the purpose of this regulation, the termrefers only to those benefit payments made to a designated living payee or beneficiary in excess of the amount due or to which such payee or beneficiary is entitled. The death of an indebted payee, either prior to a request for waiver of the indebtedness or during Committee consideration of the waiver request, shall not preclude waiver consideration. There shall be no waiver consideration of an indebtedness that results from the receipt of a benefit payment by a non-payee who has no claim or entitlement to such payment.

(a) Waiver consideration is applicable in an indebtedness resulting from work study and education loan default, as well as indebtedness of a veteran-borrower, veteran transferee, or indebted spouse of either, arising out of participation in the loan program administered under 38 U.S.C. ch. 37. Also subject to waiver consideration is an indebtedness which is the result of VA hospitalization, domiciliary care, or treatment of a veteran, either furnished in error or on the basis of tentative eligibility.

(b) In any case where there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim, action on a request for waiver will be deferred pending appropriate disposition of the matter. However, the existence of a prima facie case of fraud shall, nevertheless, entitle a claimant to an opportunity to make a rebuttal with countervailing evidence; similiarly, the misrepresentation must be more than non-willful or mere inadvertence. The Committee may act on a request for waiver concerning such debts, after the Inspector General or the Regional Counsel has determined that prosecution is not indicated, or the Department of Justice has notified VA that the alleged fraud or misrepresentation does not warrant action by that department, or the Department of Justice or the appropriate United States Attorney, specifically authorized action on the request for waiver.
