
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Department of Veterans Affairs Official Seal and Distinguishing Flag
##### ยง 1.9 Description, use, and display of VA seal and flag.
###### Official Seal,Description of official seal.

(d)-(1)The Department of Veterans Affairs prescribes as its official seal, of which judicial notice shall be taken pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 302, the imprint illustrated below:

(i) The official seal includes an American eagle clutching a cord in its talons. The cord binds a 13-star U.S. flag and a 50-star U.S. flag. In the field over the eagle is a pentagon formation of stars, with one point down. The words Department of Veterans Affairs and United States of America surround the eagle, stars, and flags. A rope motif makes up the outermost ring of the seal.

(ii) The eagle represents the eternal vigilance of all our nation's veterans. The stars represent the five branches of military service. The crossed flags represent our nation's history. The gold cord that binds the two flags, which is shown clutched in the eagle's talons is symbolic of those who have fallen in the defense of liberty. Each of the various individual items placed together in the seal is a salute to the past, present, and future.

(iii) The colors used in the configuration are gold, brown, blue, white, silver, yellow, black, and red.

(iv) The colors are derived from the American flag and from nature. By invoking this symbolism, the color scheme represents the Nation's commitment to its veterans.
