
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 20 - BOARD OF VETERANS' APPEALS: RULES OF PRACTICE
#### Subpart B - The Board
##### ยง 20.104 Rule 104. Jurisdiction of the Board.
###### General.

(a)All questions of law and fact necessary to a decision by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under a law that affects the provision of benefits by the Secretary to veterans or their dependents or survivors are subject to review on appeal to the Secretary. Decisions in such appeals are made by the Board of Veterans' Appeals. Examples of the issues over which the Board has jurisdiction include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Entitlement to, and benefits resulting from, service-connected disability or death (38 U.S.C. chapter 11).

(2) Dependency and indemnity compensation for service-connected death, including benefits in certain cases of inservice or service-connected deaths (38 U.S.C. 1312) and certification and entitlement to death gratuity (38 U.S.C. 1323).

(3) Benefits for survivors of certain veterans rated totally disabled at time of death (38 U.S.C. 1318).

(4) Entitlement to nonservice-connected disability pension, service pension and death pension (38 U.S.C. chapter 15).

(5) All-Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (38 U.S.C. chapter 30).

(6) Training and Rehabilitation for Veterans with Service-Connected Disabilities (38 U.S.C. chapter 31).

(7) Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance (38 U.S.C. chapter 32).

(8) Veterans' Educational Assistance (38 U.S.C. chapter 34).

(9) Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance (38 U.S.C. chapter 35).
