
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Department of Veterans Affairs Official Seal and Distinguishing Flag
##### ยง 1.9 Description, use, and display of VA seal and flag.
###### Use of the official seal, replicas, reproductions, and embossing seals.

(2)(i) The Secretary or designees are authorized to affix replicas, reproductions, and embossed seals to appropriate documents, certifications, and other material for all purposes as authorized by this section.

(ii) Replicas may be used only for:

(A) Display in or adjacent to VA facilities, in Department auditoriums, presentation rooms, hearing rooms, lobbies, and public document rooms.

(B) Offices of senior officials.

(C) Official VA distinguishing flags, adopted and utilized pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(D) Official awards, certificates, medals, and plaques.

(E) Motion picture film, video tape, and other audiovisual media prepared by or for VA and attributed thereto.

(F) Official prestige publications which represent the achievements or mission of VA.

(G) For other similar official purposes.

(H) For such other purposes as will tend to advance the aims, purposes and mission of the Department of Veterans Affairs as determined by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary.

(iii) Reproductions may be used only on:

(A) VA letterhead stationery.

(B) Official VA identification cards and security credentials.

(C) Business cards for VA employees.

(D) Official VA signs.

(E) Official publications or graphics issued by and attributed to VA, or joint statements of VA with one or more Federal agencies, State or local governments, or foreign governments.

(F) Official awards, certificates, and medals.

(G) Motion picture film, video tape, and other audiovisual media prepared by and for VA and attributed thereto.

(H) For other similar official purposes.

(I) For such other purposes as will tend to advance the aims, purposes and mission of the Department of Veterans Affairs as determined by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary.

(iv) Use of the official seal and embossed seals:

(A) Embossed seals may be used only on VA legal documents, including interagency or intergovernmental agreements with States, foreign patent applications, and similar official documents.

(B) The official seal may be used only for those purposes related to the conduct of Departmental affairs in furtherance of the VA mission.
