
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Salary Offset Provisions
##### § 1.980 Scope.

(a) In accordance with 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, the provisions set forth in §§ 1.980 through 1.995 implement VA's authority for the use of salary offset to satisfy certain debts owed to VA.

(b) These regulations apply to offsets from the salaries of current employees of VA, or any other agency, who owe debts to VA. Offsets by VA from salaries of current VA employees who owe debts to other agencies shall be processed in accordance with procedures set forth in 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.

(c) These regulations do not apply to debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, the Social Security Act, the tariff laws of the United States, or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108) or prohibited by another statute.

(d) These regulations do not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 38 U.S.C. 5302, 5 U.S.C. 5584, or any other similar provision of law, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt not involving benefits under the laws administered by VA by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with procedures prescribed by that office.

(e) These regulations do not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.

(f) These regulations do not apply to a routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.

(g) These regulations do not apply to any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the individual is provided with written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.

(h) These regulations do not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action under the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR parts 900-904) and VA regulations 38 CFR 1.930 through 1.944.

(i) The procedures and requirements of these regulations do not apply to salary offset used to recoup a Federal employee's debt where a judgment has been obtained against the employee for the debt.
