
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
#### Salary Offset Provisions
##### § 1.982 Salary offsets of debts involving benefits under the laws administered by VA.

(a) VA will not collect a debt involving benefits under the laws administered by VA by salary offset unless the Secretary or appropriate designee first provides the employee with a minimum of 30 calendar days written notice.

(b) If the employee has not previously appealed the amount or existence of the debt under 38 CFR parts 19 and 20 and the time for pursuing such an appeal has not expired (§ 20.302), the Secretary or appropriate designee will provide the employee with written notice of the debt. The written notice will state that the employee may appeal the amount and existence of the debt in accordance with the procedures set forth in 38 CFR parts 19 and 20 and will contain the determination and information required by § 1.983(b)(1) through (5), (7), (9), (10), and (12) though (14). The notice will also state that the employee may request a hearing on the offset schedule under the procedures set forth in § 1.984 and such a request will stay the commencement of salary offset.

(c) If the employee previously appealed the amount or existence of the debt and the Board of Veterans Appeals decided the appeal on the merits or if the employee failed to pursue an appeal within the time provided by regulations, the Secretary or designee shall provide the employee with written notice prior to collecting the debt by salary offset. The notice will state:

(1) The determinations and information required by § 1.983(b)(1)-(5), (7), and (12)-(14);

(2) That the employee's appeal of the existence or amount of the debt was determined on the merits or that the employee failed to pursue an appeal within the time provided, and VA's decision is final except as otherwise provided in agency regulations;

(3) That the employee may request a waiver of the debt pursuant to 38 CFR 1.911(c)(2) subject to the time limits of 38 U.S.C. 5302.

(4) That the employee may request an oral or paper hearing on the offset schedule and receive a decision within 60 days of such request under the procedures and time limit set forth in § 1.984 and that such a request will stay the commencement of salary offset.

(d) If the employee has appealed the existence or amount of the debt and the Board of Veterans Appeals has not decided the appeal on the merits, collection of the debt by salary offset will be suspended until the appeal is decided or the employee ceases to pursue the appeal.
