
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart A - Veteran Readiness and Employment
##### Duration of Rehabilitation Programs
###### ยง 21.79 Determining entitlement usage under Chapter 31.
####### Post-9/11 subsistence allowance

(2) When a chapter 31 participant elects to receive payment of theunder ยง 21.260(c) in lieu of a subsistence allowance under ยง 21.260(b), the entitlement usage is deducted from the veteran's chapter 31 entitlement. No entitlement charges are made against chapter 33.

(3) When a veteran is pursuing on-job training or work experience in a Federal agency on a nonpay or nominal pay basis, the amount of entitlement used is determined in the following manner:

(i) Entitlement used in on-job training in a Federal agency on a nonpay or nominal pay basis is determined in the same manner as other training.

(ii) Entitlement used in pursuing work experience will be computed in the same manner as for veterans in on-job training except that work experience may be pursued on a less than full-time basis. If the veteran is receiving work experience on a less than full-time basis, entitlement charges are based upon a proportionate amount of the workweek. For example, if the workweek is 40 hours, three-quarter time is at least 30 hours, but less than 40 hours, and half-time is at least 20 hours but less than 30 hours.

(4) Entitlement is charged on a full-time basis for a veteran found to have a reduced work tolerance.
