
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart A - Veteran Readiness and Employment
##### Authorization of Subsistence Allowance and Training and Rehabilitation Services
###### ยง 21.322 Commencing dates of subsistence allowance.
####### Increases for dependents,Dependency exists at the time of entrance or reentrance into a rehabilitation program.

(c)-(1)A veteran may have one or more dependents on or before the date he or she enters or reenters a rehabilitation program. When this occurs, the following rules apply:

(i) The effective date of the increase will be the date of entrance or reentrance if:

(A) VA receives the claim for the increase within one year of the date of entrance or reentrance; and

(B) VA receives any necessary evidence within 1 year of the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period of submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with ยง 21.32 of this part.

(ii) The effective date of the increase will be the date VA receives notice of the dependents existence if:

(A) VA receives the claim for the increase more than one year after the date of entrance or reentrance; and

(B) VA receives any necessary evidence within 1 year of the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with ยง 21.32 of this part;

(iii) The effective date of the increase will be the date VA receives all necessary evidence if that evidence is received more than one year from the date VA requested the evidence and informed the veteran of the time limits during which this evidence must be submitted. If VA fails to inform the veteran of these time limits, the period for submission of the evidence is adjusted in accordance with ยง 21.32 of this part.
