
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart A - Veteran Readiness and Employment
##### Informing the Veteran
###### ยง 21.422 Reduction in subsistence allowance following the loss of a dependent.
####### Final action.

(d)VA will take final action following the predetermination procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) If a predetermination hearing was not requested or if the veteran failed to report for a scheduled predetermination hearing, the final action will be based solely upon the evidence of record at the expiration of 60 days.

(2) If a predetermination hearing was conducted, VA will base final action upon:

(i) Evidence presented at the hearing;

(ii) Evidence contained in the claims file at the time of the hearing; and

(iii) Any additional evidence obtained following the hearing pursuant to necessary development.

(3) Whether or not a predetermination hearing was conducted, a written notice of the final action shall be issued to the veteran setting forth the reasons for the decision, and the evidence upon which it is based. The veteran will be informed of his or her appellate rights and right of representation. (For information concerning the conduct of the hearing see ยง 3.103 (c) and (d) of this chapter).

(4) When a reduction of subsistence allowance is found to be warranted following consideration of any additional evidence submitted, the effective date of the reduction or discontinuance shall be as specified under the provisions of ยง 21.324 of this part.
