
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### General
###### § 21.3021 Definitions.
####### Eligible person

(a)means:

(1) A child of a:

(i) Veteran who died of a service-connected disability.

(ii) Veteran who died while having a disability evaluated as total and permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability.

(iii) Veteran, serviceman or servicewoman who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability.

(iv) Person who is on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces and who now is, and, for a period of more than 90 days, has been, listed by the Secretary concerned as missing in action, captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power.

(2) The surviving spouse of a:

(i) Veteran who died of a service-connected disability.

(ii) Veteran who died while having a disability evaluated as total and permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability, arising out of active military, naval or air service after the beginning of the Spanish-American War. (See §§ 3.6(a) and 3.807 of this chapter.)

(3) The spouse of a:

(i) Veteran, serviceman or servicewoman who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability.

(ii) Person who is on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces and who now is, and, for a period of more than 90 days, has been, listed by the Secretary concerned as missing in action, captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power.
