
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### General
###### ยง 21.3022 Nonduplication - programs administered by VA.

A person who is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 and is also eligible for assistance under any of the provisions of law listed in this paragraph cannot receive such assistance concurrently. The eligible person must choose which benefit he or she will receive for the particular period(s) of training during which education or training is to be pursued. The individual may choose to receive benefits under another program (other than 38 U.S.C. chapter 33) at any time, but not more than once in a calendar month. The individual may choose to receive benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 at any time, but not more than once during a certified term, quarter, or semester.

(a) 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 (Montgomery GI Bill-Active Duty);

(b) 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 (Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E));

(c) 38 U.S.C. chapter 32 (Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance);

(d) 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill);

(e) 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 (Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve);

(f) 10 U.S.C. chapter 1607 (Reserve Educational Assistance Program);

(g) 10 U.S.C. chapter 106a (Educational Assistance Test Program);

(h) Section 903 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1981 (Pub. L. 96-342, 10 U.S.C. 2141 note.);

(i) The Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449, 5 U.S.C. 5561 note.); and

(j) The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-399).
