
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3041 Periods of eligibility; child.
####### Extensions to ending dates.

(g)(1) If an eligible child suspends pursuit of his or her program due to conditions that VA determined were beyond the child's control, VA may extend the period of eligibility ending date (see ยง 21.3043). VA cannot grant an extension beyond age 31 to those children whose period of eligibility ending date (as determined under paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section) is subject to an age limitation.

(2) If an eligible child's period of eligibility ending date (as determined under paragraphs (a) through (f), or (h) of this section) occurs while the child is enrolled in an educational institution, VA may extend the period of eligibility (extensions may be made beyond age 31)-

(i) To the end of the quarter or semester, for a child enrolled in an educational institution that regularly operates on the quarter or semester system; or

(ii) To the end of the course, not to exceed 12 weeks, for a child who completed a major portion of a course while enrolled in an educational institution that operates under other than a quarter or semester system.

(3) If an eligible child's period of eligibility ending date (as determined under paragraphs (a) through (f), or (h) of this section) occurs while the child is pursuing training in a training establishment (as defined in ยง 21.4200(c)), VA cannot extend the ending date.

(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if during an eligible child's period of eligibility, as determined in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section, but after September 10, 2001, an eligible child is ordered to active duty or involuntarily ordered to full-time National Guard duty VA will grant an extension of the child's period of eligibility. The extension will be equal to the length of the period served plus an additional 4 months for each qualifying period and applies if after September 10, 2001, the eligible child is-

(i) Ordered to serve on active duty under section 688, 12301(a), 12301(d), 12301(g), 12302, or 12304 of title 10, United States Code; or

(ii) Involuntarily ordered to full-time National Guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code.
