
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3043 Suspension of program; child.

For an eligible person who suspends his program due to conditions determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs to have been beyond his or her control the period of eligibility may, upon his request, be extended by the number of months and days intervening the date the suspension began and the date the reason for suspension ceased to exist. The burden of proof is on the eligible person to establish that suspension of a program was due to conditions beyond his or her control. The period of suspension shall be considered to have ended as of the date of the person's first available opportunity to resume training after the condition which caused it ceased to exist. The following circumstances may be considered as beyond the eligible person's control:

(a) While in active pursuit of a program of education he or she is appointed by the responsible governing body of an established church, officially charged with the selection and designation of missionary representatives, in keeping with its traditional practice, to serve the church in an official missionary capacity and is thereby prevented from pursuit of his or her program of studies.

(b) Immediate family or financial obligations beyond his or her control require the eligible person to take employment, or otherwise preclude pursuit of his or her program.

(c) Unavoidable conditions arising in connection with the eligible person's employment which preclude pursuit of his or her program.

(d) Pursuit of his or her program is precluded because of the eligible person's own illness or illness or death in his or her immediate family.

(e) Active duty, including active duty for training in the Armed Forces.
