
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3045 Entitlement charges.
####### Entitlement charges for elementary and secondary education.

(b)(1) When an eligible spouse or surviving spouse is pursuing a course leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate as described in ยง 21.3344, there are two sets of circumstances which will always result in VA's making no charge against his or her entitlement. These are as follows:

(i) Either the eligible spouse or surviving spouse completed training during the period beginning on October 1, 1980, and ending on August 14, 1989, and remained continuously enrolled from October 1, 1980, through the time the spouse or surviving spouse either completed training or August 14, 1989, whichever is earlier; or

(ii) The eligible spouse or surviving spouse completed training before August 15, 1989, and received educational assistance based upon the tuition and fees charged for the course.

(2) When an eligible spouse or surviving spouse is pursuing a course leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate as described in ยง 21.3344, the following circumstances will always result in VA's making a charge against his or her entitlement unless the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section would exempt the spouse or surviving spouse from receiving an entitlement charge.

(i) The spouse or surviving spouse elects to receive dependents' educational assistance at the rate described in ยง 21.3131(a), and

(ii) Either was not pursuing a course leading to a secondary school diploma or equivalency certificate on October 1, 1980, or has not remained continuously enrolled in such a course since October 1, 1980.

(3) When an eligible person pursues refresher, remedial or deficiency training before August 15, 1989, the following provisions govern the charge against the entitlement.

(i) VA will not make a charge against the entitlement of an eligible spouse or surviving spouse.

(ii) VA will make a charge against the entitlement of an eligible child.

(4) The following provisions apply to an eligible person for training received after August 14, 1989. When he or she is pursuing a course leading to a secondary school diploma or equivalency certificate or refresher, remedial or deficiency training.

(i) VA will make no charge against the entitlement of an eligible person for the first five months of full time pursuit (or its equivalent in part-time pursuit).

(ii) VA will make a charge against the entitlement of an eligible person for pursuit in excess of the pursuit described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) unless the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section would exempt the eligible person from receiving an entitlement charge.
