
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### § 21.3045 Entitlement charges.
####### Determining entitlement charge.

(e)The provisions of this paragraph apply to all courses except those courses for which VA is not making a charge against the eligible person's entitlement, apprenticeship or other on-job training, correspondence courses, and courses offered solely through independent study.

(1) After making any adjustments required by paragraph (e)(3) of this section, VA will make a charge against entitlement-

(i) On the basis of total elapsed time (one day for each day of pursuit) if the eligible person is pursuing the program of education on a full-time basis,

(ii) On the basis of a proportionate rate of elapsed time, if the eligible person is pursuing a program of education on a three-quarter, one-half or less than one-half time basis. For the purpose of this computation, training time which is less than one-half, but more than one-quarter time, will be treated as though it were one-quarter time training.

(2) VA will compute elapsed time from the commencing date of enrollment to date of discontinuance. If the eligible person changes his or her training time after the commencing date of enrollment, VA will-

(i) Divide the enrollment period into separate periods of time during which the eligible person's training time remains constant; and

(ii) Compute the elapsed time separately for each time period.

(3) An eligible person may concurrently enroll in refresher, remedial or deficiency training for which paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4)(i) of this section requires no charge against entitlement and in a course or courses for which paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(4)(ii) or (c) of this section requires a charge against entitlement. When this occurs, VA will charge entitlement for the concurrent enrollment based only on pursuit of the courses described in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(4)(ii) or (c) of this section, measured in accordance with §§ 21.4270 through 21.4275 of this part, as appropriate.
