
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3046 Periods of eligibility; spouses and surviving spouses.
####### Beginning date of eligibility period-spouses.

(a)(1) If the permanent total rating is effective before December 1, 1968, the beginning date of the 10-year period of eligibility is December 1, 1968.

(2) The beginning date of eligibility-

(i) Shall be determined as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section when-

(A) The permanent total rating is effective after November 30, 1968, or the notification to the veteran of the rating was after that date, and

(B) Eligibility does not arise under ยง 21.3021(a)(3)(ii) of this part.

(ii) For spouses for whom VA made a final determination of eligibility before October 28, 1986, shall be-

(A) The effective date of the rating, or

(B) The date of notification, whichever is more advantageous to the spouse.

(iii) For spouses for whom VA made a final determination of eligibility after October 27, 1986, shall be-

(A) The effective date of the rating, or

(B) The date of notification, or

(C) Any date between the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) (A) and (B) of this section as chosen by the eligible spouse.

(iv) May not be changed once a spouse has chosen it as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(3) If eligibility arises under ยง 21.3021(a)(3)(ii) of this part, the beginning date of the 10-year eligibility period is-

(i) December 24, 1970, or

(ii) The date the member of the Armed Forces on whose service eligibility is based was so listed by the Secretary concerned, whichever last occurs.
