
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3046 Periods of eligibility; spouses and surviving spouses.
####### Beginning date of eligibility period-surviving spouses.

(b)(1) If VA determines before December 1, 1968, that the veteran died of a service-connected disability, the beginning date of the 10-year period is December 1, 1968.

(2) If the veteran's death occurred before December 1, 1968, but VA does not determine that the veteran died of a service-connected disability until after November 30, 1968, the beginning date of the 10-year period is the date on which VA determines that the veteran died of a service-connected disability.

(3) If the veteran's death occurred before December 1, 1968, while a total, service-connected disability evaluated as permanent in nature was in existence, the beginning date of the 10-year period is December 1, 1968.

(4) If the veteran's death occurred after November 30, 1968, and VA makes a final decision concerning the surviving spouse's eligibility for dependents' educational assistance before October 28, 1986, the beginning date of the 10-year period is-

(i) The date of death of the veteran who dies while a total, service-connected disability evaluated as permanent in nature was in existence, or

(ii) The date on which VA determines that the veteran died of a service-connected disability.

(5) If the veteran's death occurred after November 30, 1968, and VA makes a final decision concerning the surviving spouse's eligibility for dependents educational assistance after October 27, 1986, VA will determine the beginning date of the 10-year period as follows.

(i) If the surviving spouse's eligibility is based on the veteran's death while a total, service-connected disability evaluated as permanent in nature was in existence, the beginning date of the 10-year period is the date of death.

(ii) If the surviving spouse's eligibility is based on the veteran's death from a service-connected disability, the surviving spouse will choose the beginning date of the 10-year period. That date will be no earlier than the date of death and no later than the date of the VA determination that the veteran's death was due to a service-connected disability.

(6) Once a surviving spouse has chosen a beginning date of eligibility as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the surviving spouse may not revoke that choice.
