
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### § 21.3046 Periods of eligibility; spouses and surviving spouses.
####### Ending date of eligibility period,Spouses.

(c)-(1)(i) If on or after December 27, 2001, VA makes a determination of eligibility for a spouse, the period of eligibility cannot exceed 10 years. The eligibility period can be extended only as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and § 21.3047.

(ii) If before December 27, 2001, VA made a determination of eligibility for a spouse, the eligibility period has no ending date unless the spouse changes his or her program of education. If on or after December 27, 2001, the spouse changes his or her program of education, the eligibility period cannot exceed 10 years. The beginning date of the eligibility period is determined as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The 10-year eligibility period can be extended only as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and § 21.3047.

(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, if eligibility arises before October 24, 1972, educational assistance will not be afforded later than October 23, 1982, based on a course or program of correspondence, apprentice, or other on-the-job training, approved under the provisions of § 21.4256, § 21.4261, or § 21.4262, except that VA may award educational assistance beyond October 23, 1982, if the eligible spouse qualifies for the extended period of eligibility as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and § 21.3047.
