
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.3046 Periods of eligibility; spouses and surviving spouses.
####### Extension to ending date.

(d)(1) The ending date of a spouse's period of eligibility may be extended when the spouse is enrolled and eligibility ceases for one of the following reasons:

(i) The veteran is no longer rated permanently and totally disabled;

(ii) The spouse is divorced from the veteran without fault on the spouse's part; or

(iii) The spouse no longer is listed in any of the categories of ยง 21.3021(a)(3)(ii) of this part.

(2) If the spouse is enrolled in a school operating on a quarter or semester system, VA will extend the period of eligibility to the end of the quarter or semester, regardless of whether the spouse has reached the midpoint of the quarter, semester or term.

(3) If the spouse is enrolled in a school not operating on a quarter or semester system, VA will extend the period of eligibility to the earlier of the following:

(i) The end of the course, or

(ii) 12 weeks.

(4) If the spouse is enrolled in a course pursued exclusively by correspondence, VA will extend the period of eligibility to whichever of the following will result in the lesser expenditure:

(i) The end of the course, or

(ii) The total additional amount of instruction that-

(A) $2,206 provides during the period July 1, 2004, through September 30, 2004;

(B) $2,248 provides during the period October 1, 2004, through September 30, 2005;

(C) $2,316 provides during the period October 1, 2005, through September 30, 2006;

(D) $2,408 provides during the period October 1, 2006, through September 30, 2007;

(E) $2,467 provides during the period October 1, 2007, through September 30, 2008; or

(F) $2,562 provides after September 30, 2008.

(5) VA will not extend the period of eligibility when the spouse is pursuing training in a training establishment as defined in ยง 21.4200(c) of this part.

(6) An extension may not-

(i) Exceed maximum entitlement, or

(ii) Extend beyond the delimiting date specified in paragraph (a) of this section or ยง 21.3047, as appropriate.
