
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Payments
###### ยง 21.3132 Reductions in survivors' and dependents' educational assistance.
####### Mitigating circumstances.

(d)(1) VA will not pay benefits to any eligible person for a course from which the eligible person withdraws or receives a nonpunitive grade which is not used in computing the requirements for graduation unless the provisions of this paragraph are met.

(i) The eligible person withdraws because he or she is ordered to active duty; or

(ii) All of the following criteria are met:

(A) There are mitigating circumstances;

(B) The eligible person submits a description of the circumstances in writing to VA either within one year from the date VA notifies the eligible person that he or she must submit the mitigating circumstances or at a later date if the eligible person is able to show good cause why the one-year time limit should be extended to the date on which he or she submitted the description of the mitigating circumstances; and

(C) The eligible person submits evidence supporting the existence of mitigating circumstances within one year of the date that evidence is requested by VA, or at a later date if the eligible person is able to show good cause why the one-year time limit should be extended to the date on which he or she submitted the evidence supporting the existence of mitigating circumstances.

(2) The following circumstances are representative of those which the Department of Veterans Affairs considers to be mitigating provided they prevent the eligible person from pursuing the program of education continuously. This list is not all inclusive.

(i) An illness of the eligible person,

(ii) An illness or death in the eligible person's family,

(iii) An unavoidable geographical transfer resulting from the eligible person's employment,

(iv) An unavoidable change in the eligible person's conditions of employment,

(v) Immediate family or financial obligations beyond the control of the eligible person which require him or her to suspend pursuit of the program of education to obtain employment,

(vi) Discontinuance of a course by a school,

(vii) Unanticipated active duty for training,

(viii) Unanticipated difficulties in caring for the eligible person's child or children.

(3) If the eligible child fails to complete satisfactorily a course of special restorative training or if the eligible person fails to complete satisfactorily a course under section 3533, Title 38 U.S.C., without fault, the Department of Veterans Affairs will consider the circumstances which caused the failure to be mitigating. This will be the case even if the circumstances were not so severe as to preclude continuous pursuit of a program of education.

(4) In the first instance of a withdrawal after May 31, 1989, from a course or courses for which the eligible person received educational assistance under title 38 U.S.C. or under chapter 1606, title 10 U.S.C., VA will consider that mitigating circumstances exist with respect to courses totaling not more than six semester hours or the equivalent. Eligible persons to whom the provisions of this subparagraph apply are not subject to the reporting requirement found in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(5) If an eligible person withdraws from a course during a drop-add period, VA will consider the circumstances which caused the withdrawal to be mitigating. Eligible persons who withdraw from a course during a drop-add period are not subject to the reporting requirement found in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
