
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart C - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 35
##### Payments
###### ยง 21.3135 Reduction or discontinuance dates for awards of educational assistance allowance.
####### Eligible stepchild ceases to be a stepchild or stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household.

(g)(1) If the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild because the veteran and the stepchild's natural or adoptive parent divorce, the eligibility ending date is as follows:

(i) If the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild while the child is not in training, the ending date of the child's period of eligibility is the date on which the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild.

(ii) If the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild while the child is training in a school organized on a term, semester, or quarter basis, the ending date of the child's eligibility is the last day of the term, semester, or quarter during which the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild.

(iii) If the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild while the child is training in a school not organized on a term, semester, or quarter basis, the ending date of the child's eligibility is the end of the course, or 12 weeks from the date on which the child ceases to be the veteran's stepchild, whichever is earlier.

(2) If the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household, he or she is no longer eligible. For purposes of this paragraph, VA considers a stepchild a member of the veteran's household even when the stepchild is temporarily not living with the veteran, so long as the actions and intentions of the stepchild and veteran establish that normal family ties have been maintained during the temporary absence. VA will determine the stepchild's eligibility ending date as follows:

(i) If the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household while the stepchild is not in training, the eligibility ending date is the date on which the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household.

(ii) If the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household while the stepchild is training in a school organized on a term, semester, or quarter basis, the ending date of the stepchild's eligibility is the last day of the term, semester, or quarter during which the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household.

(iii) If the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household while the stepchild is training in a school not organized on a term, semester, or quarter basis, the ending date of the stepchild's eligibility is the end of the course, or 12 weeks from the date on which the stepchild ceases to be a member of the veteran's household. See ยง 21.3041(f).
