
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Administrative
###### § 21.4009 Waiver or recovery of overpayments.
####### General.

(a)(1) The amount of the overpayment of educational assistance allowance or special training allowance paid to a veteran or eligible person constitutes a liability of that veteran or eligible person.

(2) The amount of the overpayment of educational assistance allowance or special training allowance paid to a veteran or eligible person constitutes a liability of the education institution if the Department of Veterans Affairs determines that the overpayment was made as the result of willful or negligent:

(i) Failure of the educational institution to report, as required by §§ 21.4203 and 21.4204, discontinuance or interruption of a course by a veteran, reservist or eligible person, or

(ii) False certification by the educational institution.

(3) If it appears that the falsity or misrepresentation was deliberate, the Department of Veterans Affairs may not pursue administrative collection pending a determination whether the matter should be referred to the Department of Justice for possible civil or criminal action. However, the Department of Veterans Affairs may recover the amount of the overpayment from the educational institution by administrative collection procedure when the Department of Veterans Affairs determines the false certification or misrepresentation resulted from an administrative error or a misstatement of fact and that no criminal or civil action is warranted.

(4) If the Department of Veterans Affairs recovers any part of the overpayment from the educational institution, it may reimburse the educational institution, if the Department of Veterans Affairs subsequently collects the overpayment from a veteran or eligible person. The reimbursement-

(i) Will be made when the total amount collected from the educational institution and from the veterans and eligible persons (less any amount applied toward marshal fees, court costs, administrative cost of collection and interest) exceeds the total amount for which the educational institution is liable, and

(ii) Will be equal to the excess.

(5) This paragraph does not preclude the imposition of any civil or criminal liability under this or any other law.
