
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Payments; Educational Assistance Allowance
###### ยง 21.4135 Discontinuance dates.
####### Course discontinued; course interrupted; course terminated; course not satisfactorily completed or withdrawn from.

(e)(1) If the individual receives all nonpunitive grades, or withdraws from all courses other than because of being ordered to active duty, and no mitigating circumstances are found, VA will terminate the individual's educational assistance allowance effective the first date of the term in which the withdrawal occurs.

(2) If the individual withdraws from all other courses other than courses in paragraph (e)(3) of this section and with mitigating circumstances, or withdraws from all courses such that a punitive grade is or will be assigned for those courses:

(i) Residence training: Last date of attendance.

(ii) Independent study: Official date of change in status under the practices of the institution.

(3) If the individual withdraws from correspondence, flight, farm cooperative, cooperative or job training, benefits will be terminated effective:

(i) Correspondence training: Date last lesson is serviced.

(ii) Flight training: Date of last instruction.

(iii) Job training: Date of last training.

(iv) Farm cooperative training: Date of last class attendance.

(v) Cooperative training: Date of last training.
