
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Payments; Educational Assistance Allowance
###### ยง 21.4135 Discontinuance dates.
####### Reduction in rate of pursuit of course (ยง 21.4270).

(s)(1) VA will reduce an individual's educational assistance allowance effective the first date of the term in which the individual reduces training by withdrawing from part of a course, if the reduction occurs at the beginning of the term.

(2) VA will reduce an individual's educational assistance allowance effective the earlier of the end of the month or end of the term in which an individual reduces training by withdrawing from part of a course when:

(i) The reduction does not occur at the beginning of the term;

(ii) The individual received a lump-sum payment for the quarter, semester, term or other enrollment period during which he or she reduced training; and

(iii) There are mitigating circumstances, or the individual receives a punitive grade for the portion of the course from which he or she withdrew.

(3) VA will reduce an individual's educational assistance allowance effective the date on which an individual reduces training when:

(i) The reduction does not occur at the beginning of the term;

(ii) The individual did not receive a lump-sum payment for the quarter, semester, term or other enrollment period during which he or she reduced training; and

(iii) There are mitigating circumstances, or the individual receives a punitive grade for the portion of the course from which he or she withdrew.

(4) If the individual reduces training by withdrawing from a part of a course and the withdrawal does not occur because the individual was ordered to active duty; there are no mitigating circumstances; and the individual receives a nonpunitive grade from that portion of the course from which he or she withdrew; VA will reduce the individual's educational assistance effective the later of the following:

(i) The first date of enrollment of the term in which the reduction occurs; or

(ii) December 1, 1976. See paragraphs (e) and (w) of this section also.

(5) An individual who enrolls in several subjects and reduces his or her rate of pursuit by completing one or more of them while continuing training in others, may receive an interval payment based on the subjects completed, if the requirements of ยง 21.4138(f) of this part are met. If those requirements are not met, VA will reduce the individual's educational assistance allowance effective the date the subject or subjects were completed.
