
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Payments; Educational Assistance Allowance
###### ยง 21.4138 Certifications and release of payments.
####### Other payments.

(e)An individual must be pursuing a program of education in order to receive payments. To ensure that this is the case the provisions of this paragraph must be met.

(1) VA will pay educational assistance to an individual (other than one pursuing a program of apprenticeship or other on-job training or a correspondence course, one who qualifies for an advance payment or one who qualifies for a lump-sum payment) only after-

(i) The educational institution has certified his or her enrollment as provided in ยง 21.4203; and

(ii) VA has received from the individual a verification of the individual's enrollment or verification of pursuit and continued enrollment, as appropriate. Generally, this verification will be required monthly, resulting in monthly payments.

(2) VA will pay educational assistance to an individual pursuing a program of apprenticeship or other on-job training only after-

(i) The training establishment has certified his or her enrollment in the training program as provided in ยง 21.4203; and

(ii) VA has received from the training establishment a certification of hours worked.

(3) VA will pay educational assistance to an individual who is pursuing a correspondence course only after-

(i) The educational institution has certified his or her enrollment;

(ii) VA has received from the individual a certification as to the number of lessons completed and serviced by the educational institution; and

(iii) VA has received from the educational institution a certification or an endorsement on the individual's certificate, as to the number of lessons completed by the individual and serviced by the educational institution.
