
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### State Approving Agencies
###### ยง 21.4150 Designation.
####### State approving agency

(a) The Chief Executive of each State is requested to create or designate a State department or agency as thefor his State, for the purpose of assuming the responsibilities delegated to the State under 38 U.S.C. chapter 36, or if the law of the State provides otherwise, to indicate the agency provided by such law (38 U.S.C. 3671(a)).

(b) The Chief Executive of each State will notify the Department of Veterans Affairs of any change in the designation of a State approving agency.

(c) The provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 36 and the sections in this part which refer to the State approving agency will be deemed to refer to VA:

(1) With respect to a State, when that State:

(i) Does not have and fails or declines to create or designate a State approving agency, or

(ii) Fails to enter into an agreement as provided in ยง 21.4153; and

(2) When VA has approval, disapproval, or suspension authority (under paragraphs (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this section, ยง 21.4152, or as otherwise provided by law).

(d) Any function, power or duty otherwise required to be exercised by a State, or by an officer or agency of a State, will, with respect to the Republic of Philippines, be exercised by the station head.

(e) The Secretary shall act as State approving agency for programs of apprenticeship, the standards for which have been approved by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to section 50a of title 29 U.S.C. as a national apprenticeship program for operation in more than one State and the training establishment is a carrier directly engaged in interstate commerce which provides such training in more than one State.

(f) Approval of a course of education offered by any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government shall be under the authority of the Secretary.

(g) Approval under 38 U.S.C. 3689 of a licensing or certification test offered by any agency or instrumentality of the Federal government will be under the authority of the Secretary.
