
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### State Approving Agencies
###### ยง 21.4153 Reimbursement of expenses.
####### Nonreimbursable expenses.

(d)The Department of Veterans Affairs will not provide reimbursement under reimbursement contracts for:

(1) Expenditures other than salaries and travel of personnel required to perform the services specified in the contract and Department of Veterans Affairs regulations.

(2) Supplies, equipment, printing, postage, telephone services, rentals, and other miscellaneous items or a service furnished directly or indirectly.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the salaries and travel of personnel while attending training sessions, or when they are engaged in activities other than those in connection with the inspection, approval, or supervision of educational institutions.

(4) The supervision of educational institutions which do not have veterans or eligible persons enrolled.

(5) Expenses incurred in the administration of an educational program which are costs properly chargeable as tuition costs, such as the development of course material or individual educational programs, teacher training or teacher improvement activities, expenses of coordinators, or administrative costs, such as those involving selection and employment of teachers. (This does not preclude reimbursement for expenses of the State agency incurred in the development of standards and criteria for the approval of courses under the law.)

(6) Expenses of a State approving agency for inspecting, approving or supervising courses when the agency is responsible for establishing, conducting or supervising those courses.

(7) Any expense for supervision or other services to be covered by contract which are already being reimbursed or paid from tuition funds under this law.
