
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4201 Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.
####### Computing the 85-15 percent ratio,Determining when separate computations are required.

(e)-(1)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section and in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, an 85-15 percent ratio must be computed for each course of study or curriculum leading to a separately approved educational or vocational objective. Computations will not be made for unit subjects, unless only one unit subject is approved by the State approving agency to be offered at a separate branch or extension of a school. Courses or curricula which are offered at separately approved branches or extensions, as well as courses or curricula leading to a secondary school diploma or equivalency certificate offered at any branch or extension, must have an 85-15 percent ratio computed separately from the same course offered at the parent institution. The count of students attending the branch may not be added to those attending the parent institution even for the same courses or curricula. However, the count of those attending courses or curricula offered at an additional facility, as opposed to a branch or extension, must be added to those attending the same course at the parent institution. Pursuit of a course or curriculum that varies in any way from a similar course, although it may have the same designation as the other similar course or curriculum, will require a separate 85-15 percent computation. A course or curriculum will be considered to vary from another if there are different attendance requirements, required unit subjects are different, required completion length is different, etc.

(i) Separate courses for computation purposes in institutions of higher learning will be determined by general curriculum only until the point at which it is reasonable to assume a major field would be declared and after that point by specific curriculum.
