
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4201 Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.
####### Calculation.

(3)(i) To determine if the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section has been met for all courses except flight courses the full-time equivalent, nonsupported students as defined by paragraph (e)(2) of this section will be compared to the full-time equivalent students enrolled in the course. If the full-time equivalent, nonsupported students do not equal at least 15 percent of the total full-time enrollment, the 85-15 percent requirement has not been met for the course. If a non-Department of Veterans Affairs student in a correspondence course has not completed a lesson nor made a payment toward the cost of the course during the 6-month period immediately prior to the computation, the student will not be counted in computing the 85-15 percent ratio.

(ii) The 85-15 percent ratio for flight courses shall be computed by comparing the number of hours of training received by or tuition charged to nonsupported students in the preceding 30 days to the total number of hours of training received by or tuition charged to all students in the same period. All approved courses offered under 14 CFR parts 141 and 142 at a flight school will be considered to be one course for the purpose of making this computation. Similarly, all other approved courses offered at a flight school will be considered to be one course for the purpose of making this computation. In this computation hours of training or tuition charges for students enrolled-

(A) In the recreational pilot certification course and the private pilot certification course will be excluded;

(B) In a ground instructor certification course will be included;

(C) In courses approved under 14 CFR part 141, other than a ground instructor certification course, will be actual hours of logged instructional flight time or the charges for those hours; and

(D) In courses not approved under 14 CFR part 141, such as courses offered by flight simulator or courses for navigator or flight engineer, shall include ground training time or charges; actual logged instructional flight time or charges; and instructional time in a flight simulator or charges for that training.
