
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4201 Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.
####### Reports.

(f)(1) Schools must submit to VA all calculations needed to support the exemption found in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If the school is organized on a term, quarter, or semester basis, it shall make that submission no later than 30 days after the beginning of the first term for which the school wants the exemption to apply. If the school is not organized on a term, quarter or semester basis, it shall make that submission no later than 30 days after the beginning of the first calendar quarter for which the school wishes the exemption to apply. A school having received an exemption found in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall not be required to certify that 85 percent or less of the total student enrollment in any course is receiving Department of Veterans Affairs assistance:

(i) Unless the Director of the VA facility of jurisdiction has reason to believe that the enrollment of eligible veterans and eligible persons in a specific course may exceed 85 percent of the total enrollment in a specific course, or

(ii) Until such time as the total number of veterans, eligible persons and reservists receiving assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapters 30, 31, 32, 33, 35 and 36, and 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606, who are enrolled in the educational institution offering the course, equals more than 35 percent of the total student enrollment at the educational institution (computed separately for the main campus and any branch or extension of the institution). At that time the procedures contained in paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall apply.

(2) The school must submit all calculations made under paragraph (e)(3) of this section to the Department of Veterans Affairs according to these time limits.

(i) If the school is organized on a term, quarter or semester basis, the calculations must be submitted no later than 30 days after the beginning of each regular school term (excluding summer sessions), or before the beginning date of the next term, whichever occurs first.

(ii) If a school is not organized on a term, quarter or semester basis, reports must be received by the Department of Veterans Affairs no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
