
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4201 Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.
####### Effect of the 85-15 percent ratio on processing new enrollments.

(g)(1) The Department of Veterans Affairs will process new enrollments of eligible veterans (and servicepersons where this provision applies to them), in a course on the basis of the school's submission of the most recent computation showing that:

(i) The 85-15 percent ratio is satisfactory, or

(ii) The course is exempt under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(2) Except for those enrollments with a beginning date before or the same as the date the school completed the most recent computation, no benefits will be paid under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 or under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30, 32, 33, or 36, when that computation establishes that the course:

(i) Neither has a satisfactory 85-15 percent ratio, nor

(ii) Is exempt under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) If a school fails to submit a timely computation, no benefits will be paid for:

(i) The enrollment of a serviceperson in a course leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate if the enrollment has beginning dates beyond the expiration of the allowable computation period, or

(ii) The enrollment of a veteran in any course to which the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply if the enrollment has beginning dates beyond the expiration of the allowable computation period.

(4) Enrollments with later beginning dates may be processed only after the school certifies that:

(i) The proper ratio has been reestablished for the course, or

(ii) The course is exempt from the requirement under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(5) When a school shows a reestablished 85-15 percent ratio, each new veteran enrollment or enrollment of a serviceperson in a course leading to a secondary school diploma or an equivalency certificate which is submitted after reestablishment must be individually computed into the ratio to ensure that the 85 percent limitation is not again immediately exceeded. The Department of Veterans Affairs will require individual computations until:

(i) The end of the term for which the ratio was reestablished, or

(ii) The end of the calendar quarter during which the ratio was reestablished if the school is not operated on a term, quarter or semester basis.

(6) Once a student is properly enrolled in a course which either meets the 85-15 percent requirement or which is exempt pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, such a student may not have benefits for that course terminated because the 85-15 percent requirement subsequently is not met or because the course loses its exemption, as long as the student's enrollment remains continuous. A student enrolled in an institution organized on a term basis need not attend summer sessions in order to maintain continuous enrollment. An enrollment may also be considered continuous if a "break" in enrollment is wholly due to circumstances beyond the student's control such as serious illness.
