
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4201 Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.
####### Waivers.

(h)Schools which desire a waiver of the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section for a course where the number of full-time equivalent students receiving VA education benefits equals or exceeds 85 percent of the total full-time equivalent enrollment in the course may apply for a waiver to the Director, Education Service, through the Director of the VA facility of jurisdiction. When applying, a school must submit sufficient information to allow the Director, Education Service, to judge the merits of the request against the criteria shown in this paragraph. This information and any other pertinent information available to VA shall be considered in relation to these criteria:

(1) Availability of comparable alternative educational facilities effectively open to veterans in the vicinity of the school requesting a waiver.

(2) Status of the school requesting a waiver as a developing institution primarily serving a disadvantaged population. The school should enclose a copy of its notice from the Department of Education that the school is eligible to be considered for a grant under the Strengthening Institutions Program or the Special Needs Program, if applicable. Otherwise the school should submit data sufficient to allow the Director, Education Service, to judge whether the school is similar to institutions which the Department of Education considers to be eligible to apply for a grant under these programs. The pertinent criteria and data categories are published in Title 34, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter VI, part 624, subpart A; part 625, subpart A; and part 626, subpart A. The requirements of those criteria that a school be a "public or nonprofit" institution need not be met.

(3) Previous compliance history of the school, including such factors as false or deceptive advertising complaints, enrollment certification timeliness and accuracy, and amount of school liability indebtedness to VA.

(4) General effectiveness of the school's program in providing educational and employment opportunities to the particular veteran population it serves. Factors to be considered should include the percentage of veteran-students completing the entire course, ratio of educational and general expenditures to full-time equivalency enrollment, etc.
