
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4203 Reports - requirements.
####### General.

(a)All the reports required by this paragraph shall be in a form specified by the Secretary.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section each educational institution, veteran and eligible person shall report without delay such information on enrollment, entrance, reentrance, change in the hours of credit or attendance, pursuit, interruption and termination of attendance of each veteran or eligible person enrolled in an approved course as the Secretary may require and using a form specified by the Secretary. See paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.

(2) An educational institution may delay in reporting the enrollment or reenrollment of a veteran or an eligible person until the end of the term, quarter, or semester when-

(i) The veteran or eligible person is enrolled in a program of independent study;

(ii) The veteran or eligible person is pursuing the program on a less than half-time basis;

(iii) The educational institution has asked the Director of the VA facility of jurisdiction in writing for permission to delay in making the report; and

(iv) The Director of the VA facility of jurisdiction has determined that it is not feasible for the educational institution to monitor interruption or termination of the veteran's or eligible person's pursuit of the program.

(3) An educational institution which disagrees with a decision of a Director of a VA facility as to whether it may delay reporting enrollments or reenrollments as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may ask to have that decision reviewed by the Director, Education Service. That request must be made in writing to the Director of the VA facility within one year of the date of the letter notifying the educational institution of the original decision.

(4) An educational institution which, under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, is delaying the reporting of the enrollment or reenrollment of a veteran shall provide the veteran with notice of the delay at the time that the veteran enrolls or reenrolls.

(5) In addition, educational institutions must-

(i) Verify enrollment for each veteran and eligible person receiving an advance payment; and

(ii) Verify the delivery of advance payment check and education loan check for each veteran and eligible person receiving an advance payment or loan.

(6) Nothing in this section or in any section in 38 CFR part 21 shall be construed as requiring any institution of higher learning to maintain daily attendance records for any course leading to a standard college degree.
