
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4203 Reports - requirements.
####### Certifications of enrollment.

(b)All the reports required by this paragraph shall be in a form specified by the Secretary.

(1) VA requires that educational institutions report all entrances and reentrances on a certification of enrollment.

(2) All educational institutions, regardless of the way in which they are organized, must clearly specify the course in which the veteran or eligible person is enrolled.

(3) Schools organized on a term, quarter or semester basis-

(i) May report enrollment for the term, quarter, semester, ordinary school year plus the following summer term.

(ii) May not report enrollment for a period that exceeds the ordinary school year plus the following summer term.

(iii) Must report the dates for the break between terms if-

(A) The certification covers two or more terms, and a term ends and the following term does not begin in the same or the next calendar month;

(B) The veteran or eligible person elects not to be paid for the intervals between terms;

(C) The certification covers two or more summer sessions; or

(D) The certification covers at least one summer session and at least one term which is not a standard semester or quarter.

(iv) Must submit a separate enrollment certification for each term, quarter or semester if the student-

(A) Is a veteran or eligible person pursuing a program on a less than half-time basis, or

(B) Is a serviceperson.

(v) Where a veteran or an eligible person, who is pursuing a course leading to a standard college degree, transfers between consecutive school terms from one approved institution to another approved institution, for the purpose of enrolling in, and pursuing, a similar course at the second institution, the veteran or eligible person shall, for the purpose of entitlement to the payment of educational assistance allowance be considered to be enrolled at the first institution during the interval, if the interval does not exceed 30 days, following the termination date of the school term of the first institution.
