
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4203 Reports - requirements.
####### Unsatisfactory progress, conduct or attendance.

(h)At times the unsatisfactory progress, conduct or attendance of a veteran or eligible person is caused by or results in his or her interruption or termination of training. If this occurs, the interruption or termination shall be reported in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. If the veteran or eligible person continues in training despite unsatisfactory progress, conduct, or despite having failed to meet the regularly prescribed standards of attendance at the school, the school must report the fact of his or her unsatisfactory progress, conduct or attendance to VA within the time limit allowed by paragraph (h) (1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A veteran's or eligible person's progress may become unsatisfactory according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the school as a result of the grades he or she receives The school shall report such unsatisfactory progress to VA in time for VA to receive it before the earlier of the following dates is reached:

(i) Thirty days from the date on which the school official, who is responsible for determining whether a student is making progress, first received the final grade report which establishes that the veteran either is not progressing satisfactorily, or

(ii) Sixty days from the last day of the enrollment period during which the veteran or eligible person earned the grades that caused him or her not to meet the satisfactory progress standards.

(2) If the unsatisfactory progress, conduct or attendance of the veteran or eligible person is caused by any factors other than the grades which he or she receives, the school shall report the unsatisfactory progress, conduct or attendance to VA in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the progress, conduct or attendance of the veteran or eligible person becomes unsatisfactory. See also ยง 21.4277.
