
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.4206 Reporting fee.

VA may pay annually to each educational institution furnishing education or each joint apprenticeship training committee acting as a training establishment under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 30, 32, 33, 35 or 36 a reporting fee for required reports or certifications. The reporting fee will be paid as soon as feasible after the end of the calendar year.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section the reporting fee will be computed for each calendar year by multiplying $7.00 by the number of eligible veterans and eligible persons enrolled under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606, or 38 U.S.C. chapter 30, 32, 33, 35 or 36 during that calendar year.

(b) In computing the reporting fee VA will not count a veteran or servicemember whose only receipt of educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 during a calendar year was tuition assistance top-up.

(c) An additional $4 will be paid to those institutions which have delivered to the veteran or eligible person at registration the educational assistance check representing an advance payment, or which have delivered educational loan checks in accordance with the provisions of subpart F. If an institution delivers both an advance payment check and educational loan check(s) to the same veteran or eligible person within 1 calendar year, it shall receive only one additional $4 fee. In order to receive this fee, the institution shall submit to the Department of Veterans Affairs a certification of delivery of each check. If an advance payment check is not delivered within 30 days after commencement of the student's program, the check is to be returned to the Department of Veterans Affairs. If an education loan check is not delivered within 30 days of the date the educational institution received it, the check shall be returned to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(d) No reporting fee payable to an educational institution under this section shall be subject to offset by the Department of Veterans Affairs against any liability of the educational institution for any overpayment which the Department of Veterans Affairs has administratively determined to exist unless the liability of the educational institution was not contested by the educational institution or was upheld by a final decree of a court of appropriate jurisdiction.

(e) Before payment of a reporting fee the Department of Veterans Affairs will require an educational institution to certify that:

(1) It has exercised reasonable diligence in determining whether it or any course offered by it approved for the enrollment of veterans or eligible persons meets all of the applicable requirements of chapter 1606 of title 10 U.S.C. or chapters 30, 32, 33, 35 and 36 of title 38, U.S.C.; and

(2) It will, without delay, report any failure to meet any requirement to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
