
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Programs of Education
###### § 21.4233 Combination.
####### Concurrent enrollment.

(b)Where a veteran or eligible person cannot successfully schedule his or her complete program at one school, a program of concurrent enrollment may be approved. When requesting such a program the veteran or eligible person must show that his or her complete program of education or training is not available at the school in which he or she will pursue the major portion of his or her program (the primary school), or that it cannot be scheduled successfully within the period in which he or she plans to complete his or her program.

(1) If VA measures the courses pursued at both institutions on either a clock-hour basis or a credit-hour basis, VA will measure the veteran's or eligible person's enrollment by adding together the units of measurement in the second school to the units of measurement for the courses in the primary institution. The standard for full time will be the full-time standard for the courses at the primary institution.

(2) Where the standards for measurement of the courses pursued concurrently in the two schools are different, VA will measure the veteran's or eligible person's enrollment by converting the units of measurement for courses in the second school to the equivalent in value expressed in units of measurement required for the courses in the program of education which the veteran or eligible person is pursuing at the primary institution.

(3) If the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section require VA to convert clock hours to credit hours, it will do so by-

(i) Dividing the number of credit hours which VA considers to be full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a credit-hour basis by the number of clock hours which are full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a clock-hour basis; and

(ii) Multiplying each clock hour of attendance by the decimal determined in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. VA will drop all fractional hours.

(4) If the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section require VA to convert credit hours to clock hours, it will do so by-

(i) Dividing the number of clock hours which VA considers to be full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a clock-hour basis by the number of credit hours which are full-time at the educational institution whose courses are measured on a credit-hour basis; and

(ii) Multiplying each credit hour by the number determined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. VA will drop all fractional hours.

(5) Periodic certifications of training will be required from the veteran and each of the schools where concurrent enrollment is approved in a course which does not lead to a standard college degree and to which the measurement provisions of § 21.4270(b), of this part do not apply. (See §§ 21.4203 and 21.4204.)
