
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4250 Course and licensing and certification test approval; jurisdiction and notices.
####### General.

(a)The statements made in this paragraph are subject to exceptions found in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) If an educational institution offers a resident course in a State, only the State approving agency for the State where the course is being offered may approve the course for VA training. If the State approving agency chooses to approve a resident course (other than a flight course) not leading to a standard college degree, it must also approve the class schedules of that course.

(2) If an educational institution with a main campus in a State offers a resident course not located in a State, only the State approving agency for the State where the educational institution's main campus is located may approve the course for VA training. If the State approving agency chooses to approve a resident course (other than a flight course) not leading to a standard college degree, it must also approve the class schedules of that course.

(3) If an educational institution offers a course by independent study or by correspondence, only the State approving agency for the State where the educational institution's main campus is located may approve the course for VA training.

(4) If a training establishment offers a program of apprenticeship or other on-job training, only the State approving agency for the State where the training will take place may approve the course for VA training.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, if a State or political subdivision of a State offers a licensing test, only the State approving agency for the State where the license will be valid may approve the test for VA payment.

(6)(i) If an organization or entity offers a licensing or certification test and applies for approval of that test, only the State approving agency for the State where the organization or entity has its headquarters may approve the test and the organization or entity offering the test for VA payment. This approval will be valid wherever the test is given.

(ii) If the organization or entity offering a licensing or certification test does not apply for approval, and a State or political subdivision of a State requires that an individual take the test in order to obtain a license, the State approving agency for the State where the license will be valid may approve the test for VA payment. This approval will be valid for the purpose of VA payment only if the veteran takes the test in the State or political subdivision of the State where the license is valid.

(7) A course approved under 38 U.S.C. chapter 36 will be deemed to be approved for purposes of 38 U.S.C. chapter 35.

(8) Any course that was approved under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 (as in effect before February 1, 1965), or under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 before March 3, 1966, and was not or is not disapproved for failure to meet any of the requirements of the applicable chapters, will be deemed to be approved for purposes of 38 U.S.C. chapter 36.

(9) VA may make tuition assistance top-up payments of educational assistance to an individual to meet all or a portion of an educational institution's charges for education or training that the military department concerned has not covered under tuition assistance, even though a State approving agency has not approved the course in which the individual was enrolled.
