
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4252 Courses precluded; erroneous, deceptive, or misleading practices.
####### Erroneous, deceptive, or misleading practices.

(h)For the purposes of this paragraph, "educational institution" includes an organization or entity offering licensing or certification tests.

(1) If an educational institution uses advertising, sales, enrollment practices, or candidate handbooks that are erroneous, deceptive, or misleading by actual statement, omission, or intimation, VA will not approve:

(i) An enrollment in any course such an educational institution offers; and

(ii) Payment of educational assistance as reimbursement to a veteran or eligible person for taking a licensing or certification test that the educational institution offers.

(2) VA will use the services and facilities of the Federal Trade Commission, where appropriate, under an agreement:

(i) To carry out investigations; and

(ii) To decide whether an educational institution uses advertising, sales, or enrollment practices, or candidate handbooks, described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(3) Any educational institution offering courses approved for the enrollment of veterans, reservists, and/or eligible persons, or offering licensing or certification tests approved for payment of educational assistance as reimbursement to veterans or eligible persons who take the tests, must maintain a complete record of all advertising, sales materials, enrollment materials, or candidate handbooks (and copies of each) that the educational institution or its agents have used during the preceding 12-month period. The State approving agency and VA may inspect this record. The materials in this record shall include but are not limited to:

(i) Any direct mail pieces,

(ii) Brochures,

(iii) Printed literature used by sales people,

(iv) Films, video cassettes and audio tapes disseminated through broadcast media,

(v) Material disseminated through print media,

(vi) Tear sheets,

(vii) Leaflets,

(viii) Handbills,

(ix) Fliers, and

(x) Any sales or recruitment manuals used to instruct sales personnel, agents or representatives of the educational institution.
