
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4252 Courses precluded; erroneous, deceptive, or misleading practices.
####### Courses taken by a nonmatriculated student who is pursuing a degree.

(l)The provisions of this paragraph apply to veterans and eligible persons who are pursuing a degree, but who have not matriculated. The Department of Veterans Affairs considers a student to have matriculated when he or she has been formally admitted to a college or university as a degree-seeking student.

(1) Some colleges or universities admit students provisionally, pending receipt of test results or transcripts. The Department of Veterans Affairs may approve such a veteran's or eligible person's enrollment in a course or subject only if the veteran or eligible person matriculates during the first two terms, quarters or semesters following his or her admission.

(2) The first portion of the courses leading to a single degree may be offered at one college or university. The remaining courses are not offered at the college or university, but are offered at a second college or university which grants the degree based upon the combined credits earned by the student. If the student is not required to matriculate during the portion of the program offered at the first college or university, VA may approve an enrollment in a course or subject that is part of that portion of the program only when the certifications described in either paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section are made.

(i) The college or university granting the degree certifies concurrently with the student's enrollment in the first portion of the program, that

(A) Full credit will be granted for the subjects taken in the portion of the curriculum offered at the first college or university;

(B) In the last 5 years at least three students who have completed the first part of the program have been accepted into the second part of the program;

(C) At least 90 percent of those who have applied for admission to the second part of the program, after successfully completing the first part, have been admitted;

(D) The student will be required to matriculate during the first two terms, quarters or semesters following his or her admission to the second part of the program.

(ii) The college or university offering the first part of the program:

(A) Certifies to the appropriate State approving agency that as a result of an agreement between that college or university and the college or university offering the second part of the program, all of the courses taken by the veteran or eligible person in the first part of the program, will be accepted by the college or university offering the second part of the program without any loss of credit in partial fulfillment of the requirements for an associate or higher degree. This certification may be made once for each program for which an agreement exists.

(B) Certifies to VA that the veteran or eligible person has stated to an appropriate official of the college or university offering the first part of the program that he or she is pursuing the program.

(3) The first portion of the subjects or courses in a baccalaureate program beyond those necessary for an associate degree may be given at a 2-year college, while the remainder may be offered at a 4-year college or university. When the college or university does not require the student to matriculate while pursuing the additional study at the 2-year college, VA may approve an enrollment in a course offered in the program at the 2-year college only if the certifications described in either paragraph (l)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section are made.

(i) The college or university granting the baccalaureate degree certifies that:

(A) Full credit is granted for the course upon the student's transfer to the college or university granting the baccalaureate degree,

(B) The courses taken at the 2-year college will be acceptable in partial fulfillment for the baccalaureate degree, and

(C) The student will be required to matriculate during the first two terms, quarters or semesters following his or her admission to the college or university granting the baccalaureate degree.

(ii) Either the 2-year college or the college or university granting the baccalaureate degree:

(A) Certifies to the appropriate State approving agency that as a result of agreement between the 2-year college and the college or university offering the baccalaureate degree all of the courses pursued beyond the associate degree will be accepted without any loss of credit in partial fulfillment of the requirements for a baccalaureate degree. This certification may be made once for each program for which an agreement exists.

(B) Certifies to VA that the veteran or eligible person is enrolled in courses covered by the agreement.

(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (l)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, the Department of Veterans Affairs will not approve a veteran's or eligible person's enrollment in a course or subject if the veteran or eligible person:

(i) Is pursuing a degree, and

(ii) Is not matriculated.

(5) Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a State approving agency from including more restrictive matriculation requirements in its approval criteria.
