
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4255 Refund policy; nonaccredited courses.
####### Waiver.

(b)(1) An educational institution may apply through the appropriate State approving agency to the Director of the VA facility of jurisdiction for a waiver of the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as they apply to a veteran or eligible person. The State approving agency shall forward the application to the Director along with its recommendations. The Director shall consider the recommendations and shall grant a waiver only when he or she finds that the educational institution:

(i) Is a college, university, or similar institution offering post-secondary level academic instruction leading to an associate or higher degree;

(ii) Is operated by an agency of a State or a unit of local government;

(iii) If operated by an agency of a State, is located within that State;

(iv) If operated by a unit of local government, is located within the boundaries of the area over which that unit has taxing jurisdiction;

(v) Is a candidate for accreditation by a regional accrediting agency; and

(vi) Charges the veteran or eligible person no more than $120 per quarter, $180 per semester or $360 per school year in tuition, fees and other charges for the course.

(2) If an educational institution disagrees with a decision of a Director of a VA facility, it may ask that the Director, Education Service review the decision. In reviewing the decision the Director must consider the evidence of record. He or she may not grant a waiver unless all the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met.
