
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### § 21.4256 Correspondence programs and courses.
####### Approval of correspondence programs and courses.

(a)(1) An educational institution desiring to enroll veterans under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 or 32, spouses and/or surviving spouses under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35, and/or reservists under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 in a program of education to be pursued exclusively by correspondence, or in the correspondence portion of a combination correspondence-residence course, may have the program or course approved only when the educational institution meets the requirements of §§ 21.4252(e), 21.4253, and 21.4279, as applicable.

(2) The application of an educational institution for approval of a program of education to be pursued exclusively by correspondence or the correspondence portion of a combined correspondence-residence course must demonstrate that the program or course is satisfactory in all elements. The educational institution must certify to the State approving agency that at least 50 percent of those pursuing the program or course require six months or more to complete it. For applications for approval that are pending approval by the State approving agency on February 2, 1995, and for applications received by the State approving agency after that date, the required certification shall be based on the experience of students who completed the program or course during the six-month period immediately preceding the educational institution's application for approval.

(3) State approving agencies have the authority to review periodically the length of time needed to complete each approved correspondence program or approved correspondence-residence course in order to determine whether the program or course should continue to be approved. In implementing this authority, a State approving agency will examine the results over a prior two-year period reasonably related to the date on which such a review is conducted.
