
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4256 Correspondence programs and courses.
####### Mandatory refund policy.

(c)(1) Upon notification of the educational institution by the veteran, spouse, surviving spouse, or reservist of an intention not to affirm the enrollment agreement, any fees paid by the individual shall be returned promptly in full to him or her.

(2) Upon termination of enrollment under an affirmed enrollment agreement for training in the accredited course by the veteran, spouse, surviving spouse, or reservist, without having completed any lessons, a registration fee not in excess of 10 percent of the tuition for the course or $50, whichever is less, may be charged him or her. When the individual terminates the agreement after completion of less than 25 percent of the lessons of the course, the institution may retain the registration fee plus 25 percent of the tuition. When the individual terminates the agreement after completing 25 percent but less than 50 percent of the lessons, the institution may retain the registration fee plus 50 percent of the tuition for the course. If 50 percent or more of the lessons are completed, no refund of tuition is required.

(3) Where the school either has or adopts an established policy for the refund of the unused portion of tuition, fees, and other charges subject to proration, which is more favorable to the veteran, spouse, surviving spouse, or reservist than the pro rata basis as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, such established policy will be applicable.

(4) Any institution that fails to forward any refund due to the veteran, spouse, surviving spouse, or reservist within 40 days after receipt of a notice of termination or disaffirmance, shall be deemed, prima facie, to have failed to make a prompt refund as required by this section.
