
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4259 Suspension or disapproval.

(a) The appropriate State approving agency, after approving any course or licensing or certification test:

(1) May suspend the approval of a course for new enrollments, or approval of a licensing or certification test, for a period not to exceed 60 days to allow the institution to correct any deficiencies, if the evidence of record establishes that the course or licensing or certification test fails to meet any of the requirements for approval.

(2) Will immediately disapprove the course or licensing or certification test, if any of the requirements for approval are not being met and the deficiency cannot be corrected within a period of 60 days.

(3) Upon suspension or disapproval, the State approving agency will notify the educational institution by certified or registered letter with a return receipt secured (38 U.S.C. 3679). It is incumbent upon the State approving agency to determine the conduct of courses and to take immediate appropriate action in each case in which it is found that the conduct of a course in any manner fails to comply with the requirements for approval.

(b) Each State approving agency will immediately notify VA of each course, or licensing or certification test, that it has suspended or disapproved.

(c) The Department of Veterans Affairs will suspend approval for or disapprove courses or licensing or certification tests under conditions specified in paragraph (a) of this section where it functions for the State approving agency. See ยง 21.4150(c).

(d) The Department of Veterans Affairs will immediately notify the State approving agency in each case of Department of Veterans Affairs suspension or disapproval of any school under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31.

(e) The Secretary or the appropriate State approving agency will disapprove a licensing and certification program of education if the educational institution providing the program of education fails to publicly disclose in a prominent manner any conditions or additional requirements, including training, experience, or examinations required to obtain the license, certification, or approval for which the program of education is designed to provide preparation.

(1) The Secretary will determine whether a disclosure is sufficiently prominent; however, at a minimum, the educational institution must publish the conditions or requirements on a publicly facing website and in their catalog, and include them in any publication (regardless of medium) which explicitly mentions "educational assistance benefits for servicemembers (and their dependents) or veterans (and their dependents)" or which, in the view of the Secretary, is intended for VA educational assistance beneficiaries.

(2) Individuals continuously enrolled at the same educational institution pursuing a program of education subject to disapproval under paragraph (e) of this section may complete the program of education.
