
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4260 Courses in foreign countries.
####### Approval of courses offered by a foreign medical school.

(b)In addition to meeting all the criteria stated in paragraph (a) of this section, a course offered by a foreign medical school (other than one located in Canada) must also meet all of the following criteria:

(1) The school satisfies the criteria for listing as a medical school in the World Directory of Medical Schools published by the World Health Organization (WHO).

(2) The evaluating bodies (such as medical associations or educational agencies) whose views are considered relevant by the Director, Education Service, and which are located in the same country as the school-

(i) Recognize the school as a medical school, and

(ii) Approve the school.

(3) The school provides, and in the normal course requires its students to complete, a program of clinical and classroom instruction at least 32 months long. This program must be-

(i) Supervised closely by members of the school's faculty, and

(ii) Provided either.

(A) Outside the United States in facilities adequately equipped and staffed to afford students comprehensive clinical and classroom medical instruction, or

(B) Inside the United States, through a training program for foreign medical students which has been approved by all the medical licensing boards and evaluating bodies whose views are considered relevant by the Director, Education Service.

(4) The school has graduated classes during each of the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date on which VA receives the school's application for approval of its courses.

(5) The Director, Education Service, shall withdraw approval of any course when the course or the school offering it fails to meet any of the approval criteria in this section or in Chapter 36, Title 38 U.S.C.

(6) In making the decisions required by this paragraph, the Director, Education Service, may consult with the Secretary of Education. The Director may review any information about a foreign medical school which the Secretary may make available.
