
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Courses
###### ยง 21.4263 Approval of flight training courses.
####### Charges.

(j)The appropriate State approving agency shall approve charges for tuition and fees for each flight course exclusive of charges for tuition and fees for solo flying hours which exceed the maximum permitted under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section and for preflight briefings and postflight critiques which precede or follow the excess solo hours.

(1) The approved charges for tuition and fees shall be based upon the charges for tuition and fees which similarly circumstanced nonveterans enrolled in the same flight course are required to pay. Charges for books, supplies and lodging may not be reimbursed.

(2) For the ground school portion of ground training, the State approving agency should approve group charges or unit prices if audio-visual equipment is used. For the preflight briefings and postflight critiques, the State approving agency should approve individual instructor rates for individual training flights. An average charge per hour based upon total hours and cost of all training given on the ground may not be approved.

(3) A veteran, servicemember or reservist or group (all or part of whom are veterans, servicemembers or reservists) owning an airplane may lease it to an approved flight school and have exclusive use of the aircraft for flight training. The aircraft should meet the requirements prescribed for all airplanes to be used in the course, and should be shown in the approval by the State approving agency. The leasing arrangement should not result in charges for flight instruction for those owning the airplane greater than charges made to others not leasing an aircraft to the school.

(4) If membership in a flight club entitles a veteran, servicemember or reservist to flight training at less than the standard rate, his or her educational allowance will be based on the reduced rate. No payments will be made for the cost of joining the flight club, since it is not a charge for the flight course.
