
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart D - Administration of Educational Assistance Programs
##### Assessment and Pursuit of Courses
###### ยง 21.4270 Measurement of courses.
####### Trade and technical courses.

(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if shop practice is an integral part of a trade or technical course not leading to a standard college degree-

(A) A full-time enrollment is 22 clock hours per week (exclusive of supervised study) with not more than 2hours rest period allowance;

(B) A three-quarter-time enrollment is 16 through 21 clock hours per week (exclusive of supervised study) with not more than 2 hours rest period allowance;

(C) A one-half-time enrollment is 11 through 15 clock hours per week (exclusive of supervised study) with not more than 1hours rest period allowance;

(D) A less than one-half-time but more than one-quarter-time enrollment is 6 through 10 clock hours per week (exclusive of supervised study) with not more thanhour rest period allowance; and

(E) A quarter-time enrollment is 1 through 5 clock hours per week (exclusive of supervised study).

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if theory and class instruction constitute more than 50 percent of the required hours in a trade or technical course not leading to a standard college degree, enrollments will be measured as follows. In measuring net instruction there will be included customary intervals not to exceed 10 minutes between classes. Shop practice and rest periods are excluded. Supervised instruction periods in a school's shops and the time involved in field trips and group instruction may be included in computing the clock hour requirements.

(A) A full-time enrollment is 18 clock hours net instruction per week (exclusive of supervised study);

(B) A three-quarter-time enrollment is 13 through 17 clock hours net instruction per week (exclusive of supervised study);

(C) A one-half-time enrollment is 9 through 12 clock hours net instruction per week (exclusive of supervised study);

(D) A less than one-half-time but more than one-quarter-time enrollment is 5 through 8 clock hours net instruction per week (exclusive of supervised study); and

(E) A quarter-time enrollment is 1 through 4 clock hours net instruction per week (exclusive of supervised study).
