
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart F - Education Loans
##### ยง 21.4500 Definitions.
###### Loan period.

(d)(1) The Department of Veterans Affairs will make loans normally for a quarter, semester, summer term or two consecutive quarters.

(2) The Department of Veterans Affairs may grant a loan to an eligible spouse or surviving spouse attending a course not organized on a term, quarter or semester basis if the course requires at least 6 months at the full-time rate to complete. A loan will be granted for not more than 6 months at a time.

(i) The Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs facility of jurisdiction may waive the requirement that such a course must take at least 6 months to complete. Such a waiver of the length of the course shall be granted by the Director only if a school requests one for a course and the Director finds that:

(A) During the previous 2 years at least 75 percent of the students enrolled in the course completed it.

(B) During the previous 2 years at least 75 percent of the persons completing the course found employment in the occupational category for which the course is designed to provide training.

(C) The default rate on all Department of Veterans Affairs education loans ever made to students at the educational institution does not exceed 5 percent or 5 cases, whichever is greater.

(D) The default rate on all loans ever made to students pursuant to loan programs administered by the Department of Education does not exceed 5 percent or five cases, whichever is greater.

(E) The course is at least 3 months long.

(F) The course is approved for full-time attendance only.

(G) No more than 35 percent of the students attending the course are receiving educational assistance from the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(H) The Field Director for the region in which the Department of Veterans Affairs facility is located concurs in the waiver.

(ii) If a school disagrees with a decision of a Director of a Department of Veterans Affairs facility, it may, within 1 year from the date of the letter from the Director informing the school of the decision, request that the decision be reviewed by the Director, Education Service. The Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs facility shall forward all requests to the Director, Education Service, who shall consider all evidence submitted by the school. He or she has the authority to affirm or reverse a decision of a Department of Veterans Affairs facility, but shall not grant a waiver if the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section are not met.

(iii) A waiver will remain in effect until the date on which the course fails to meet one of the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. A school which has received a waiver for a course must notify the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs facility of jurisdiction within 30 days of the date on which one of those requirements is not met.
