
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart G - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 32
##### Schools
###### ยง 21.5200 Schools.

In the administration of benefits payable under the provisions of chapter 32, title 38, U.S.C., the Department of Veterans Affairs will apply the following sections:

(a) Section 21.4200-Definitions (with the exception of paragraph (a)).

(b) Section 21.4201-Restrictions on enrollment; percentage of students receiving financial support.

(c) Section 21.4202-Overcharges; restrictions on enrollments.

(d) Section 21.4203-Reports-Requirements.

(e) Section 21.4204 (except paragraphs (a) and (e))-Periodic certifications.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Section 21.4206-Reporting fee.

(h) Section 21.4209-Examination of records.

(i) Section 21.4210-Suspension and discontinuance of educational assistance payments and of enrollments or reenrollments for pursuit of approved courses.

(j) Section 21.4211-Composition, jurisdiction, and duties of Committee on Educational Allowances.

(k) Section 21.4212-Referral to Committee on Educational Allowances.

(l) Section 21.4213-Notice of hearing by Committee on Educational Allowances.

(m) Section 21.4214-Hearing rules and procedures for Committee on Educational Allowances.

(n) Section 21.4215-Decision of Director of VA facility of jurisdiction.

(o) Section 21.4216-Review of decision of Director of VA facility of jurisdiction.
