
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
#### ยง 2.6 Secretary's delegations of authority to certain officials (38 U.S.C. 512).
##### Veterans Health Administration.

(a)The Under Secretary for Health is delegated authority:

(1) To act on all matters assigned to the Veterans Health Administration by statute (38 U.S.C. Ch. 73) and by regulation, except such matters as require the personal attention or action of the Secretary.

(2) To revise, exceed, delete, increase, or decrease fees contained in Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans Health Services and Research Administration Manual M-1, part I, appendix A (following agreement therefor as provided in the contract with the intermediary involved), in an approved State fee schedule, and to add additional fees when found to be necessary, provided such fees are not in excess of those customarily charged the general public, in the community concerned, for the same service.

(3) To designate the Deputy Under Secretary for Health, or other physician of the Veterans Health Administration, and authority is hereby delegated such designee to perform the functions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) To revise, exceed, delete, increase or decrease dental fees established in Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans Health Services and Research Administration Manual M-4, chapter 6, and any amendments thereto, and to add additional fees when found to be necessary, provided: such fees are not in excess of those customarily charged the general public, in the community concerned, for the same service.

(5) To designate the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Dentistry, and authority is hereby delegated such designee, to perform the functions prescribed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) To supervise programs for grants to the Republic of the Philippines and medical care for Commonwealth Army veterans and Philippine Scouts in Veterans Memorial Medical Center, Manila, pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. ch. 17, subch. IV.
