
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart G - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 32
##### Educational Assistance Pilot Program
###### § 21.5292 Reduced monthly contribution for certain individuals.
####### Application of sections to this portion of the pilot program.

(e)(1) The following sections apply to this portion of the pilot program with amendments as noted:

(i) In § 21.5021(e) a participant includes someone whose contributions are being made by the Secretary of Defense.

(ii) In § 21.5052(b) the Secretary of Defense may make contributions to the fund and may designate the amount of the contribution.

(iii) In § 21.5052(d) the Secretary of Defense may increase or decrease the amount of the contribution.

(iv) In §§ 21.5064 and 21.5065 monthly contributions made by the Secretary of Defense will be returned to him or her instead of being refunded to the veteran.

(v) In § 21.5071 the Department of Veterans Affairs will also credit the individual with 1 month of entitlement for each month the Secretary of Defense contributes to the fund on his or her behalf.

(vi) In § 21.5138 the references to the individual's contributions include those contributions made on the individual's behalf by the Secretary of Defense.

(2) Except as amended in paragraph (e)(1) of this section §§ 21.5001 through 21.5041 and §§ 21.5050 through 21.5270 apply without change to this portion of the pilot program. See § 21.5296.
