
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart G - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 32
##### Educational Assistance Pilot Program
###### § 21.5294 Transfer of entitlement.
####### Application of VA regulations to this portion of the pilot program.

(d)(1) Sections 21.5030 (a) and (b), 21.5040, 21.5041 and 21.5050 through 21.5067 and § 21.5145 apply to the individual who is participating in this portion of the pilot program, but they do not apply to the individual's spouse or child, per se.

(2) The following sections apply to this portion of the pilot program with amendments as noted:

(i) In § 21.5022 the entitlement used by the spouse or child counts toward the 48-month limitation on receiving benefits under more than one program which is imposed on the individual.

(ii) In § 21.5072 the charge against the individual's entitlement will be made on the basis of payments made to the individual's spouse or child.

(iii) In § 21.5100 the individual's spouse or child may request counseling, but an incompetent spouse or child is not required to be counseled before selecting a program of education.

(iv) In §§ 21.5132 through 21.5138 references to payment to the individual apply equally to payment to the spouse or child.

(3) Except as amended in paragraph (d)(2) of this section the following sections apply without change to this portion of the pilot program:

(i) Sections 21.5001 through 21.5023,

(ii) Section 21.5030(c),

(iii) Sections 21.5070 through 21.5130,

(iv) Section 21.5131, and

(v) Sections 21.5132 through 21.5300.

(4) Section 21.5131 (a) and (b) does not apply to this portion of the pilot program.
