
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart G - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 32
##### Educational Assistance Pilot Program
###### ยง 21.5296 Extended period of eligibility.
####### Qualifying period of disability.

(c)A veteran's extended period of eligibility shall be based on the period of time that the veteran himself or herself was prevented by reason of physical or mental disability, not the result of the veteran's willful misconduct, from initiating or completing his or her chosen program of education. VA will not consider the disabling effects of chronic alcoholism to be the result of willful misconduct.

(1) Evidence must be presented which clearly establishes that the veteran's disability made pursuant of his or her program medically infeasible during the veteran's original period of eligibility as determined by ยง 21.5041. A period of disability following the end of the original disability period will not be a basis for extension.

(2) VA will not consider a veteran who is disabled for a period of 30 days or less as having been prevented from enrolling or reenrolling in the chosen program of education or was forced to discontinue attendance, because of the short disability.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, a veteran's transfer of entitlement to a spouse or child during a period for which the veteran's disability prevented his or her pursuit of a program of education will not affect the veteran's entitlement to an extension of eligibility under this section.

(4) Since the act of entitlement transfer to a spouse or child indicates that the veteran did not intend to personally use his or her educational assistance during the specified transfer period, a veteran who becomes disabled after transferring entitlement will not be entitled to an extended period of eligibility based on any period of the disability which coincides with the specified transfer period unless-

(i) The transferee or transferees did not use any entitlement during this period, and

(ii) The veteran can clearly demonstrate that, notwithstanding his or her decision to transfer entitlement, the veteran would have used the entitlement during all or part of the transfer period and was prevented from doing so solely by reason of his or her disability.
