
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart H - Educational Assistance Test Program
##### Eligibility and Entitlement
###### ยง 21.5743 Transfer of entitlement.
####### Entitlement may be transferred.

(a)(1) A veteran or servicemember may transfer all or part of his or her entitlement to educational assistance and subsistence allowance to a spouse or dependent child. He or she may not transfer entitlement to more than one person at a time.

(2) The Secretary of the Navy may authorize a member or veteran of the Navy or Marine Corps to make a transfer described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section provided:

(i) The servicemember or veteran has entitlement to educational assistance as provided in ยง 21.5742;

(ii) The enlistment that established the servicemember's or veteran's entitlement was his or her second reenlistment as a member of the Armed Forces;

(iii) The servicemember or veteran has completed at least four years of active service of that second reenlistment; and

(iv) The servicemember's or veteran's second reenlistment was for a period of at least six years.

(3) No transfer, other than one described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be made until the veteran or servicemember-

(i) Has completed the enlistment upon which his or her entitlement is based or has been discharged for reasons described in ยง 21.5740(b)(2), and

(ii) Has thereafter reenlisted.

(4) The servicemember or veteran may revoke at any time a transfer described in either paragraph (a) (2) or (3) of this section.

(5) If a veteran attempts to transfer entitlement after 10 years have elapsed from the date he or she has retired, has been discharged or has otherwise been separated from active duty, the transfer shall be null and void.
