
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart H - Educational Assistance Test Program
##### Payments - Educational Assistance and Subsistence Allowance
###### ยง 21.5820 Educational assistance.
####### Amount of educational assistance.

(b)(1) The amount of educational assistance will be adjusted annually by regulation. For the 2003-04 standard academic year the amount of this assistance may not exceed $4,219.

(2) The amount of educational assistance payable to a servicemember, veteran, spouse or dependent child of a living servicemember or veteran for an enrollment period will be the lesser of the following:

(i) The total charges for educational expenses the eligible individual incurs during the enrollment period, or

(ii) For the 2003-04 standard academic year an amount determined by:

(A) Multiplying the number of whole months in the enrollment period by $468.78 for a full-time student or by $234.39 for a part-time student;

(B) Multiplying any additional days in the enrollment period by $15.63 for a full-time student or by $7.81 for a part-time student; and

(C) Adding the two results. If the enrollment period is as long as or longer than the standard academic year, this amount will be decreased by 2 cents for a full-time student and decreased by 1 cent for a part-time student.

(3) The amount of educational assistance payable to each surviving spouse or dependent child of a deceased servicemember or veteran for an enrollment period will be the lesser of the following:

(i) The total charges for educational expenses the eligible individual incurs during the enrollment period, or

(ii) For the 2003-04 standard academic year an amount determined by:

(A) Multiplying the number of whole months in the enrollment period by $468.78 for a full-time student or by $234.39 for a part-time student;

(B) Multiplying any additional days in the enrollment period by $15.63 for a full-time student or by $7.81 for a part-time student; and

(C) Adding the two results. If the enrollment period is as long as or longer than a standard academic year, this amount will be decreased by 2 cents for a full-time student and decreased by 1 cent for a part-time student; and

(D) Dividing the amount determined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section by the number of the deceased veteran's dependents receiving educational assistance for that enrollment period. If one or more dependents is receiving educational assistance for part of the enrollment period, the amount calculated in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) will be prorated on a daily basis. The amount for each day when more than one dependent is receiving educational assistance will be divided by the number of dependents receiving educational assistance on that day. The total amount for the days when only one dependent is receiving educational assistance will not be divided.
