
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart H - Educational Assistance Test Program
##### Payments - Educational Assistance and Subsistence Allowance
###### ยง 21.5822 Subsistence allowance.
####### Amount of subsistence allowance.

(b)(1) The following rules govern the amount of subsistence allowance payable to veterans and to spouses and dependent children of veterans who are alive during the period for which subsistence allowance is payable. As stated in paragraph (a) of this section, these amounts are payable only for periods during which the veterans, spouses or dependent children are entitled to educational assistance.

(i) If a person is pursuing a course of instruction on a full-time basis, his or her subsistence allowance is $1,051 per month for training pursued during the 2003-04 academic year.

(ii) If a person is pursuing a course of instruction on other than a full-time basis, his or her subsistence allowance is $525.50 per month for training pursued during the 2003-04 academic year.

(iii) If a person does not pursue a course of instruction for a complete month VA will prorate the subsistence allowance for that month on the basis of 1/30th of the monthly rate for each day the person is pursuing the course.

(2) The following rules govern the amount of subsistence allowance payable to surviving spouses and dependent children of deceased veterans and servicemembers.

(i) VA will determine the monthly rate of subsistence allowance payable to a person for a day during which he or she is pursuing a course of instruction full-time during the 2003-04 academic year by dividing $1,051 per month by the number of the deceased veteran's dependents pursuing a course of instruction on that day.

(ii) VA will determine the monthly rate of subsistence allowance payable to a person for a day during which he or she is pursuing a course of instruction on other than a full-time basis during the 2003-04 academic year by dividing $525.50 per month by the number of the deceased veteran's dependents pursuing a course of instruction on that day.

(iii) The total amount of subsistence allowance payable to a person for a month is the sum of the person's daily rates for the month.
