
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
#### ยง 2.6 Secretary's delegations of authority to certain officials (38 U.S.C. 512).
##### National Cemetery Administration.

(f)Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs is delegated authority:

(1) To act on all matters assigned to the National Cemetery Administration by statute (38 U.S.C. chapter 24) and by regulation except where specifically requiring the personal attention or action of the Secretary and to authorize supervisory personnel within the jurisdiction of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, to perform such functions as may be assigned.

(2) To designate, as deemed necessary, Superintendents of National Cemeteries as special investigators under 38 U.S.C. 901, however, such law enforcement authority is limited to enforcement of rules and regulations governing conduct on property under the charge and control of the Department of Veterans Affairs, as those rules and regulations apply to the cemetery over which the individual Superintendent exercises control and jurisdiction. Such designation will not authorize the carrying of firearms by any Superintendent.

(3) To accept donations, except offers of land, made in any manner, for the beautification or benefit of national cemeteries.

(4) To name features in national cemeteries, such as, roads, walks, and special structures.

(5) To establish policies and specifications for inscriptions on Government headstones, markers, and private monuments.
