
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
#### ยง 2.6 Secretary's delegations of authority to certain officials (38 U.S.C. 512).
##### Inspector General.

(g)(1) The Secretary delegates to the Inspector General, the authority, as head of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to make written requests under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7), for the transfer of records or copies of records maintained by other agencies which are necessary to carry out an authorized law enforcement activity of the Office of Inspector General. This delegation is made pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 512. The Inspector General may redelegate the foregoing authority within the Office of Inspector General, but the delegation may only be to an official of sufficient rank to ensure that the request for the records has been the subject of a high level evaluation of the need for the information.

(2) The Inspector General delegates the authority under the Inspector General Act of 1978, and redelegates the authority under paragraph (a) of this section, to request Privacy Act-protected records from Federal agencies pursuant to subsection (b)(7) of the Privacy Act to each of the following Office of Inspector General officials: (i) Deputy Inspector General, (ii) Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, (iii) Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, (iv) Chief of Operations, and (v) Special Agents in Charge of Field Offices of Investigations. These officials may not redelegate this authority.

(3) The Office of Inspector General is authorized to make final decisions on appeals submitted pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act concerning any Office of Inspector General records.
