
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart I - Temporary Program of Vocational Training for Certain New Pension Recipients
##### Basic Eligibility Requirements
###### § 21.6040 Eligibility for vocational training and employment assistance.
####### Eligibility for employment assistance.

(b)(1) As provided in this paragraph, a veteran who is a participant in this program shall be eligible to receive counseling, placement, postplacement, work and personal adjustment services furnished under § 21.6060(a)(2) of this part for a period not to exceed 18 months. These services are further described in §§ 21.140(d)(2), 21.250(a), (b)(2), (c)(3), and (4), and 21.252, 21.254, 21.256, 21.257, and 21.258 of this part.

(2) The participants who qualify for the services described in paragraph (a) of this section include a veteran who:

(i) Has completed a vocational rehabilitation training program;

(ii) Undertakes a vocational training program, but voluntarily terminates training. If VA determines the veteran to be employable at the time participation in training ends, the veteran shall be deemed to have completed the vocational training program and may be provided the employment services described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if he or she requests such assistance;

(iii) Does not require a vocational training program because VA determines as a result of an evaluation that he or she already possesses the training necessary for suitable employment and is able to achieve a vocational goal without further training; and

(iv) Has been a prior participant in a vocational training program, is currently employable, but needs employment assistance to obtain employment in a suitable occupation.

(3) The 18-month period of employment services allowed under this section shall begin upon the date that a veteran under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section completes the vocational training program or in the case of a veteran under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section is found to be employable. If a veteran has been provided such services and obtains suitable employment, but is later found to require additional services of this kind, the veteran may be provided such additional services during any portion of the original 18-month period remaining.
