
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
#### ยง 2.7 Delegation of authority to provide relief on account of administrative error.

(a) Section 503(a) of title 38 U.S.C., provides that if the Secretary determines that benefits administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs have not been provided by reason of administrative error on the part of the Federal Government or any of its employees, the Secretary is authorized to provide such relief on account of such error as the Secretary determines equitable, including the payment of moneys to any person whom he determines equitably entitled thereto.

(b) Section 503(b) of title 38 U.S.C., provides that if the Secretary determines that any veteran, surviving spouse, child of a veteran, or other person, has suffered loss, as a consequence of reliance upon a determination by the Department of Veterans Affairs of eligibility or entitlement to benefits, without knowledge that it was erroneously made, the Secretary is authorized to provide such relief as the Secretary determines equitable, including the payment of moneys to any person equitably entitled thereto. The Secretary is also required to submit an annual report to the Congress, containing a brief summary of each recommendation for relief and its disposition. Preparation of the report shall be the responsibility of the General Counsel.

(c) The authority to grant the equitable relief, referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, has not been delegated and is reserved to the Secretary. Recommendation for the correction of administrative error and for appropriate equitable relief therefrom will be submitted to the Secretary, through the General Counsel. Such recommendation may be initiated by the head of the administration having responsibility for the benefit, or of any concerned staff office, or by the Chairman, Board of Veterans Appeals. When a recommendation for relief under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is initiated by the head of a staff office, or the Chairman, Board of Veterans Appeals, the views of the head of the administration having responsibility for the benefit will be obtained and transmitted with the recommendation of the initiating office.
