
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart I - Temporary Program of Vocational Training for Certain New Pension Recipients
##### Educational and Vocational Training Services
###### ยง 21.6120 Educational and vocational training services.
####### Selection of courses.

(b)VA and the veteran will select vocationally oriented courses of study and training, completion of which usually results in a diploma, certificate, degree, qualification for licensure, or employment. The educational and training services to be provided include:

(1) Remedial, deficiency and refresher training; and

(2) Training which leads to a vocational objective. All of the forms of program pursuit presented in ยง 21.122 through ยง 21.132 of this part may be authorized. Education and training programs in institutions of higher learning are authorized provided the courses are part of a program which is predominantly vocational in content. The program of education and training shall be considered to be predominantly vocational in content if the majority of the instruction offered provides the technical skills and knowledge generally regarded as specific to, and required for, entry into the vocational goal approved for the veteran. Such education and training may generally be authorized at an undergraduate or advanced degree level. However the following are excluded:

(i) An associate degree program in which the content of the majority of the instruction provided is not vocationally oriented;

(ii) The first two years of a 4-year baccalaureate degree program;

(iii) The last two or more years of a 4-year baccalaureate degree program except in degree programs with majors in engineering, teaching, or other similar degree programs with vocational content which ordinarily lead directly to employment in an occupation that is usually available to persons holding such a degree; or

(iv) An advanced degree program, except for a degree program required for entry into the veteran's employment objective, such as a master's degree in social work.
