
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7042 Basic eligibility requirements.
####### Restrictions on establishing eligibility.

(f)(1) An individual who, after June 30, 1985, first becomes a member of the Armed Forces or first enters on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces, may elect not to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30. This election must be made at the time the individual initially enters on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces. An individual who makes such an election is not eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30 unless he or she withdraws the election as provided in paragraph (c) of this section or in ยง 21.7045(b) or (c) of this part.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, an individual is not eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 if after December 31, 1976, he or she receives a commission as an officer in the Armed Forces upon graduation from:

(i) The United States Military Academy;

(ii) The United States Naval Academy;

(iii) The United States Air Force Academy; or

(iv) The United States Coast Guard Academy.

(3) Except as provided in this paragraph and in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, an individual who after December 31, 1976, receives a commission as an officer in the Armed Forces upon completion of a program of educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 2107 (the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program) is not eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30. This bar to eligibility under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 does not apply to an individual who entered active duty after September 30, 1996, and received-

(i) $2,000 or less in educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 2107 for at least one year of the individual's participation in that program of educational assistance; or

(ii) $3,400 or less in educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 2107 for at least one year of the individual's participation in that program of educational assistance. This provision applies to payment of educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 for months after December 31, 2001.

(4) Paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section do not apply to a veteran who has met the requirements for educational assistance under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this section before receiving a commission in the Armed Forces upon graduation from the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Coast Guard Academy; or upon completion of a program of educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 2107 (the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps Scholarship Program).
