
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7042 Basic eligibility requirements.
####### Reduction in basic pay.

(g)(1) Except as elsewhere provided in this paragraph, the basic pay of any individual described in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall be reduced by $100 for each of the first 12 months that the individual is entitled to basic pay. If the individual does not serve 12 months, it shall be reduced by $100 for each month that the individual is entitled to basic pay.

(2) The basic pay of an individual who withdraws an election not to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30 as described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be reduced by

(i) $1,200, or

(ii) In the case of an individual whose discharge or release from active duty prevents the reduction of the individual's basic pay by $1,200, an amount less than $1,200.

(3) The basic pay of any individual who makes the election described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and who does not withdraw that election will not be subject to the reduction described in either paragraph (g)(1) or paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(4) The individual who makes the election described in either paragraph (a)(7) or (b)(10) of this section shall have his or her basic pay reduced by $1,200 in a manner prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. To the extent that basic pay is not so reduced before the individual's discharge or release from active duty, VA will collect from the individual an amount equal to the difference between $1,200 and the total amount of the reductions described in this paragraph. If the basic pay of an individual is not reduced and/or VA does not collect from the individual an amount equal to the difference between $1,200 and the total amount of the pay reductions, that individual is ineligible for educational assistance.

(5) If through administrative error, or other reason-

(i) The basic pay of an individual described in paragraph (a)(1) through (a)(6), (b)(1) through (b)(9), (c), or (d) of this section is not reduced as provided in paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section, the failure to make the reduction will have no effect on his or her eligibility, but will negate or reduce the individual's entitlement to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 determined as provided in ยง 21.7073 for an individual described in paragraph (c) of this section;

(ii) The basic pay of an individual, described in paragraph (a)(7) or (b)(10) of this section, is not reduced as described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section and/or VA does not collect from the individual an amount equal to the difference between $1,200 and the total amount of the pay reductions described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, that individual is ineligible for educational assistance. If the failure to reduce the individual's basic pay and/or the failure to collect from the individual was due to administrative error on the part of the Federal government or any of its employees, the individual may be considered for equitable relief depending on the facts and circumstances of the case. See ยง 2.7 of this chapter.
