
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7045 Eligibility based on involuntary separation, voluntary separation, or participation in the Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Program.
####### Required election.

(1)(i) If, under ยง 21.7042(f), the individual elected not to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30, he or she must irrevocably withdraw that election and make an election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30. The withdrawal and the election must be made:

(A) Before the involuntary or voluntary separation as the case may be, and

(B) Pursuant to procedures which the Secretary of the military department concerned provides in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense or which the Secretary of Transportation provides with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy; and

(ii) If the individual is a participant (as defined in ยง 21.5021(e)) in the educational program provided in 38 U.S.C. ch. 32, the individual must make an irrevocable election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30 rather than under 38 U.S.C. ch. 32. Such an election must be made:

(A) Before the individual is involuntarily or voluntarily separated as the case may be, and

(B) Pursuant to procedures which the Secretary of the military department concerned provides in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense or which the Secretary of Transportation provides with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy; or

(iii) If the individual is not described in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, he or she must make an irrevocable election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30. This election must be made:

(A) Before the individual is involuntarily or voluntarily separated as the case may be, and

(B) Pursuant to procedures which the Secretary of the military department concerned provides in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense or which the Secretary of Transportation provides with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy.
