
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7045 Eligibility based on involuntary separation, voluntary separation, or participation in the Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Program.
####### $2,700 collection.

(4)(i) An individual who has made the election described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section must have his or her basic pay reduced by $2,700 in a manner prescribed by the Secretary of the military department concerned. To the extent that basic pay is not so reduced before the individual's discharge or release from active duty, the Secretary of the military department concerned will collect from the individual an amount equal to the difference between $2,700 and the amount that the individual's basic pay has been reduced. The individual may choose how the $2,700 is to be collected. The Secretary of the military department concerned, according to the choice the individual makes, will collect this amount-

(A) From the individual; or

(B) By reducing the individual's retired or retainer pay.

(ii) The individual must pay $2,700 to the Secretary of the military department concerned, as provided for by that Secretary, during an 18-month period beginning on the date the individual made the election described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(iii) Educational assistance under authority of paragraph (e) of this section to an individual who was discharged or released from active duty before the Secretary of the military department concerned had collected the full $2,700 described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section is not payable until that Secretary either-

(A) Collects in full the $2,700; or

(B) Has made the first reduction in retired or retainer pay for the purpose of the $2,700 payment described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. Thus, a veteran who is making the $2,700 payment through having retired or retainer pay reduced may be eligible before the Secretary of the military department concerned collects the full $2,700.
