
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Entitlement
###### § 21.7072 Entitlement to basic educational assistance.
####### Entitlement based on service in the Selected Reserve.

(c)(1) Except as provided in § 21.7073, when the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section are met, an individual is entitled to one month of basic educational assistance (or the equivalent thereof in part-time basic educational assistance) for each month of the individual's active duty service that is after June 30, 1985, and that, in the case of an individual who had no previous eligibility under 38 U.S.C. chapter 34, is part of the individual's qualifying obligated period of active duty. An individual is entitled to one month of basic educational assistance (or the equivalent thereof in part-time basic educational assistance) for each four months served by the individual in the Selected Reserve after June 30, 1985 (other than a month in which the individual serves on active duty). Except as provided in § 21.7073, VA will apply the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section when the individual-

(i) Establishes eligibility through meeting the eligibility requirements of § 21.7042 or § 21.7044, and

(ii) Bases his or her eligibility upon a combination of service on active duty and service in the Selected Reserve as described in § 21.7042(b) and § 21.7044(b).

(2) Entitlement will be calculated in whole months.

(3) The following types of time lost are not countable in determining the extent of a veteran's or servicemember's entitlement:

(i) Excess leave,

(ii) Noncreditable time, and

(iii) Not-on-duty time.

(4) A veteran described in this paragraph is not entitled to any basic educational assistance for service in the Selected Reserve in excess of the number of months of service in the Selected Reserve which is evenly divisible by four.

(5) VA will consider a veteran to be entitled to 36 months of basic educational assistance when he or she-

(i) Initially enters on active duty after June 30, 1985;

(ii) Is attempting to establish eligibility through service in the Selected Reserve;

(iii) Has completed the active duty service required in § 21.7042 of this part; and

(iv) Is participating in the Selected Reserve, but has not participated for the length of time required in § 21.7042 of this part.
