
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Entitlement
###### § 21.7076 Entitlement charges.
####### Determining entitlement charge.

(b)This paragraph states how VA generally will determine the charge against the entitlement of a servicemember or veteran who is receiving educational assistance. However, when the circumstances described in paragraph (e) apply to a servicemember or veteran, VA will use that paragraph to determine an entitlement charge instead of this paragraph.

(1) Except for those pursuing correspondence training, flight training, apprenticeship or other on-job training; those receiving tuition assistance top-up; those receiving educational assistance for taking an approved licensing or certification test; those receiving tutorial assistance; and those receiving an accelerated payment, VA will make a charge against entitlement:

(i) On the basis of total elapsed time (one day for each day of pursuit) if the servicemember or veteran is pursuing the program of education on a full-time basis,

(ii) On the basis of a proportionate rate of elapsed time, if the veteran or servicemember is pursuing the program of education on a three-quarter, one-half or less than one-half time basis. For the purpose of this computation, training time which is less than one-half, but more than one-quarter time, will be treated as though it were one-quarter time training.

(2) VA will compute elapsed time from the commencing date of the award to date of discontinuance. If the veteran or servicemember changes his or her training time after the commencing date of the award, VA will-

(i) Divide the enrollment period into separate periods of time during which the veteran's or servicemember's training time remains constant, and.

(ii) Compute the elapsed time separately for each time period.

(3) For each month that a veteran is paid a monthly educational assistance allowance while undergoing apprenticeship or other on-job training, VA will make a charge against 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 entitlement of-

(i) .75 of a month in the case of payments made during the first six months of the veteran's pursuit of the program of apprenticeship or other on-job training,

(ii) .55 of a month in the case of payments made during the second six months of the veteran's pursuit of the program of apprenticeship or other on-job training, and

(iii) .35 of a month in the case of payments made following the first twelve months of the veteran's pursuit of apprenticeship or other on-job training.

(4) For each month that a veteran is paid a monthly educational assistance allowance while undergoing apprenticeship or other on-job training, including any month in which the veteran fails to complete 120 hours of training, VA will make a record-purpose charge against 38 U.S.C. chapter 34 entitlement, if any, as follows:

(i) For training that occurs before October 1, 2005, VA will reduce 38 U.S.C. chapter 34 entitlement by one month for each month of benefits paid.

(ii) For training that occurs on or after October 1, 2005, VA will reduce 38 U.S.C. chapter 34 entitlement proportionately based on the percentage rate (rounded to the nearest percentage) determined by dividing the amount of the training assistance paid for the month by the monthly educational assistance payable for full-time enrollment in an educational institution.

(5) When a veteran or servicemember is pursuing a program of education by correspondence, VA will make a charge against entitlement for each payment made to him or her. The charge-

(i) Will be made in months and decimal fractions of a month, and

(ii) Will be determined by dividing the amount of the payment by an amount equal to the rate of educational assistance otherwise applicable to him or her for full-time training (disregarding in the case of a servicemember the cost of course comparison).

(6) When a veteran or servicemember is pursuing a program of education partly in residence and partly by correspondence, VA will make a charge against entitlement-

(i) For the residence portion of the program as provided in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, and

(ii) For the correspondence portion of the program as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(7) When a veteran or servicemember is paid an accelerated payment, VA will make a charge against entitlement for each accelerated payment made to him or her. The charge-

(i) Will be made in months and decimal fractions of a month; and

(ii) Will be determined by dividing the amount of the accelerated payment by an amount equal to the rate of basic educational assistance otherwise applicable to him or her for full-time institutional training. If the rate of basic educational assistance increases during the enrollment period, VA will charge entitlement for the periods covered by the initial rate and the increased rate, respectively.

(8) If an individual is paid tutorial assistance as provided in § 21.7141, the following provisions will apply.

(i) There will be no charge to entitlement for the first $600 of tutorial assistance paid to an individual under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30.

(ii) VA will make a charge against the period of entitlement of one month for each amount of tutorial assistance paid under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30, to the individual in excess of $600 that is equal to the amount of monthly educational assistance the individual is otherwise eligible to receive for full-time pursuit of a residence course as provided in §§ 21.7136, 21.7137 and 21.7138, as appropriate. When the amount of tutorial assistance paid to the individual in excess of $600 is less than the amount of monthly educational assistance the individual is otherwise eligible to receive, the entitlement charge will be prorated.

(9) When a veteran or servicemember is pursuing a program of education through flight training, VA will make a charge against entitlement for each payment made to him or her. The charge-

(i) Will be made in months and decimal fractions of a month, and

(ii) Will be determined by dividing the amount of the payment by an amount equal to the rate of basic educational assistance otherwise applicable to him or her for full-time institutional training.

(10) When a servicemember receives tuition assistance top-up, VA will make a charge against his or her entitlement as established under § 21.7072 equal to the number of months and days determined by dividing the total amount paid by an amount equal to the servicemember's monthly rate of basic educational assistance as calculated under § 21.7136. VA will make a charge against his or her tuition assistance top-up entitlement as established under § 21.7075 by subtracting from that entitlement the total number of months and days in the term, quarter, or semester for which the servicemember received tuition assistance.

(11) When a veteran or servicemember receives educational assistance for taking an approved licensing or certification test, VA will make a charge against his or her entitlement equal to the number of months and days determined by dividing the total amount paid by an amount equal to the servicemember's monthly rate of basic educational assistance as calculated under § 21.7136, excluding any additional "kicker" that may be paid under § 21.7136(g).
