
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Transfer of Entitlement to Basic Educational Assistance to Dependents
###### ยง 21.7080 Transfer of entitlement.
####### Transferor fails to complete required service contract that afforded participation in the transferability program.

(m)(1) The dependents are not eligible for transferred entitlement if the transferor fails to complete the amount of active duty service he or she agreed to serve in the Armed Forces in order to participate in the transferability program, unless the transferor did not complete the active duty service due to-

(i) His or her death;

(ii) A service-connected disability;

(iii) A medical condition which preexisted such service on active duty and which the Secretary of VA determines is not service-connected;

(iv) A hardship; or

(v) A physical or mental condition that was not characterized as a disability and did not result from the individual's own willful misconduct, but that did interfere with the individual's performance of duty, as determined by the Secretary of each service department.

(2) VA will treat all payments of educational assistance to dependents as overpayments if the transferor does not complete the required service unless the transferor does not complete the required service due to one of the reasons stated in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(n) Dependent is eligible for educational assistance under this section and is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 based on his or her own active duty service. Dependents eligible for payment of educational assistance through transferred entitlement and who are eligible for payment under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 based on their own active service-

(1) May receive educational assistance payable under this section and educational assistance payable based on their own active duty service for the same course.

(2) Are not subject to the 48 months limit on training provided for in ยง 21.4020 when combining transferred entitlement with their own entitlement earned under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 as long as the only educational assistance paid is under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30. If the dependent is awarded educational assistance under another program listed in ยง 21.4020 (other than 38 U.S.C. chapter 30), the 48 months limit on training will apply.
