
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Counseling
###### ยง 21.7100 Counseling.
####### Purpose.

(a)The purpose of counseling is

(1) To assist in selecting an objective;

(2) To develop a suitable program of education;

(3) To select an educational institution appropriate for the attainment of the educational objective;

(4) To resolve any personal problems which are likely to interfere with the successful pursuit of a program; and

(5) To select an employment objective for the veteran that would be likely to provide the veteran with satisfactory employment opportunities in light of his or her personal circumstances.

(b) Required counseling. (1) In any case in which VA has rated the veteran as being incompetent, the veteran must be counseled before selecting a program of education or training. The requirement that counseling be provided is met when-

(i) The veteran has had one or more personal interviews with the counselor;

(ii) The counselor has jointly developed with the veteran recommendations for selecting a program; and

(iii) These recommendations have been reviewed with the veteran.

(2) The veteran may follow the recommendations developed in the course of counseling, but is not required to do so.

(3) VA will take no further action on a veteran's application for assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 when he or she-

(i) Fails to report;

(ii) Fails to cooperate in the counseling process; or

(iii) Does not complete counseling to the extent required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) Counseling is not required for any other individual eligible for educational assistance established under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30.
