
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### ยง 21.7131 Commencing dates.
####### Increase for a dependent.

(e)A veteran who was eligible for educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 34 on December 31, 1989, is entitled to additional educational assistance for dependents. No other veteran or servicemember is eligible for additional educational assistance. The effective date for the additional educational assistance is determined as follows.

(1) The veteran may acquire one or more dependents before he or she enters or reenters a program of education. When this occurs, the following rules apply.

(i) The effective date of the increase will be the date of entrance or reentrance if-

(A) VA receives the claim for the increase within 1 year of the date of entrance or reentrance, and

(B) VA receives necessary evidence within 1 year of its request, or the veteran shows that good cause exists for VA's not receiving the necessary evidence within 1 year of its request. See ยง 21.7032.

(ii) The effective date of the increase will be the date the VA receives notice of the dependent's existence if-

(A) VA receives the claim for the increase more than 1 year after the date of entrance or reentrance, and

(B) VA receives notice of the dependent's existence if evidence is received either within 1 year of VA request, or the veteran shows that there is good cause to extend the one-year time limit to the date on which VA received notice of the dependent's existence.

(iii) The effective date will be the date VA receives all necessary evidence, if that evidence is received more than 1 year from the date VA requests it, unless the veteran is able to show that there is good cause to extend the one-year time limit to the date on which VA received notice of the dependent's existence. If the veteran shows good cause, the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section will apply.

(2) If the veteran acquires a dependent after he or she enters or reenters a program of education, the increase will be effective on the latest of the following dates:

(i) Date of the veteran's marriage, or birth of his or her child, or his or her adoption of a child, if the evidence of the event is received within 1 year of the event.

(ii) Date notice is received of the dependent's existence if evidence is received either within 1 year of the VA request, or the veteran shows that there is good cause to extend the one-year time limit to the date on which VA received notice of the dependent's existence.

(iii) The date VA receives evidence if this date is more than 1 year after the VA request, and the veteran is not able to show that there is good cause to extend the one-year time limit to the date on which VA received notice of the dependent's existence.
