
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### § 21.7131 Commencing dates.
####### Eligibility established under § 21.7045(c).

(n)The effective date of an award of educational assistance when the veteran has established eligibility under § 21.7045(c) is as follows:

(1) If the veteran is not entitled to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 32 on the date he or she made a valid election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30, the effective date of the award of educational assistance will be the latest of the following.

(i) The commencing date as determined by paragraphs (a) through (c) and (f) through (j) of this section; or

(ii) October 23, 1992, provided that VA received the $1,200 required to be collected pursuant to § 21.7045(c)(2) and any other evidence necessary to establish that the election is valid before the later of:

(A) October 23, 1993; or

(B) One year from the date VA requested the $1,200 or the evidence necessary to establish a valid election; or

(iii) The date VA received the $1,200 required to be collected pursuant to § 21.7045(c)(2) and all other evidence needed to establish that the election is valid, if the provisions of paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section are not met.

(2) If the veteran is entitled to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 32 on the date he or she made a valid election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30, the effective date of the award of educational assistance will be the latest of the following:

(i) The commencing date as determined by paragraphs (a) through (c) and (f) through (j) of this section; or

(ii) The date on which the veteran made a valid election to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 provided that VA received the $1,200 required to be collected pursuant to § 21.7045(c)(2) and any other evidence necessary to establish that the election is valid before the later of:

(A) One year from the date VA received the valid election; or

(B) One year from the date VA requested the $1,200 or the evidence necessary to establish a valid election; or

(iii) The date VA received the $1,200 required to be collected pursuant to § 21.7045(c)(2) and all other evidence needed to establish that the election is valid, if the provisions of paragraph (n)(2)(ii) of this section are not met.
