
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### ยง 21.7136 Rates of payment of basic educational assistance.
####### Increase in basic educational assistance rates ("kicker").

(d)The Secretary concerned may increase the amount of basic educational assistance payable to an individual who has a skill or specialty which the Secretary concerned designates as having a critical shortage of personnel or for which it is difficult to recruit. The amount of the increase is set by the Secretary concerned, but (except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section)-

(1) For individuals, who first become members of the Armed Forces before November 29, 1989, (other than those pursuing cooperative training before October 9, 1996, or apprenticeship or other on-job training) it may not exceed:

(i) $400 per month for full-time training,

(ii) $300 per month for three-quarter-time training,

(iii) $200 per month for one-half-time training, or for training which is less than one-half, but more than one-quarter-time, or

(iv) $100 per month for one-quarter-time training or less.

(2) For individuals, who become members of the Armed Forces during the period beginning November 29, 1989 and ending September 30, 1998 (other than those pursuing cooperative training before October 9, 1996, or apprenticeship or other on-job training), it may not exceed:

(i) $700 per month for full-time training,

(ii) $525 per month for three-quarter-time training,

(iii) $350 per month for one-half-time training or for training which is less than one-half, but more than one-quarter-time, or

(iv) $175 per month for one-quarter-time training or less.

(3) For individuals, who first become members of the Armed Forces after September 30, 1998, (other than those pursuing apprenticeship or other on-job training), it may not exceed:

(i) $950.00 per month for full-time training,

(ii) $712.50 per month for three-quarter-time training,

(iii) $475.00 per month for one-half-time training or for training which is less than one-half, but more than one-quarter-time, or

(iv) $237.50 per month for one-quarter-time training or less.

(4) For individuals who first become members of the Armed Forces before November 29, 1989, and who are pursuing an apprenticeship or other on-job training, the increase may not exceed the rates shown below:

(i) During the first 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $300 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $340 per month.

(ii) During the second 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $220 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $260 per month.

(iii) During the remaining months of training the increase may not exceed $140 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $180 per month.

(5) For individuals who first become members of the Armed Forces during the period beginning November 29, 1989, and ending September 30, 1998, and who are pursuing an apprenticeship or other on-job training, the increase may not exceed the rates shown below:

(i) During the first 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $525 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $595 per month.

(ii) During the second 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $385 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $455 per month.

(iii) During the remaining months of training the increase may not exceed $245 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $315 per month.

(6) For individuals who first become members of the Armed Forces after September 30, 1998, and who are pursuing apprenticeship or other on-job training, the increase may not exceed the rates shown below:

(i) During the first 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $712.50 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $807.50 per month.

(ii) During the second 6 months of training the increase may not exceed $522.50 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $617.50 per month.

(iii) During the remaining months of training the increase may not exceed $332.50 per month, except that during the period October 1, 2005, through December 31, 2007, for training that occurs during that period, the increase may not exceed $427.50 per month.

(7) For individuals who first become members of the Armed Forces before November 29, 1989, and who are pursuing cooperative training, it may not exceed $320 per month for training received before October 9, 1996.

(8) For individuals who first become members of the Armed Forces after November 28, 1989, and who are pursuing cooperative training, it may not exceed $560 per month for training received before October 9, 1996.
