
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### ยง 21.7136 Rates of payment of basic educational assistance.
####### Increase in basic educational assistance rates ("kicker") for those eligible under ยง 21.7045.

(f)A veteran who formerly was eligible to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 32, and becomes eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 30 as described in ยง 21.7045(b)(1)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), (d), or (e), may receive an increase in basic educational assistance allowance (kicker). The increase will be determined as follows.

(1) The basis of the increase will be that portion of the amount of money-

(i) Which remains in the VEAP fund after the veteran has been paid all assistance due him or her under 38 U.S.C. ch. 32 and refunded all of his or her contributions to the VEAP fund, and-

(ii) Which represents the Secretary of Defense's additional contributions for the veteran as stated in ยง 21.5132(b)(3) of this part.

(2) For a student pursuing a program of education by residence training-

(i) VA will determine the monthly rate of the increase by dividing the amount of money described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section by the number of months of entitlement to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 which the veteran has at the time his eligibility for benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 is first established;

(ii) VA will use the monthly rate of the increase determined in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section if the veteran is pursuing his or her program full time;

(iii) VA will multiply the monthly rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by .75 for a student pursuing his or her program three-quarter time;

(iv) VA will multiply the monthly rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by .5 for a student pursuing his or her program half time; and

(v) VA will multiply the monthly rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by .25 for a student pursuing his or her program less than one-half time.

(3) For a veteran pursuing cooperative training VA will multiply the rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by .8 for training received before October 9, 1996.

(4) For a veteran pursuing a program of apprenticeship or other on-job training-

(i) During periods before October 1, 2005, and after December 31, 2007, VA will multiply the monthly rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section-

(A) By .75 for a veteran in the first six months of pursuit of training,

(B) By .55 for a veteran in the second six months of pursuit of training, or

(C) By .35 for a veteran in the remaining months of pursuit of training.

(ii) During the period beginning October 1, 2005, and ending December 31, 2007, VA will multiply the monthly rate determined by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section-

(A) By .85 for a veteran in the first six months of pursuit of training,

(B) By .65 for a veteran in the second six months of pursuit of training, or

(C) By .45 for a veteran in the remaining months of pursuit of training.
