
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart K - All Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program (Montgomery GI Bill - Active Duty)
##### Pursuit of Courses
###### ยง 21.7154 Pursuit and absences.
####### Additional requirements for individuals receiving an accelerated payment.

(d)(1) When an individual receives an accelerated payment as provided in ยง 21.7151(c) and (d), he or she must certify the following information within 60 days of the end of the term, quarter or semester (or entire program when the program is not offered on a term, quarter, or semester basis) for which the accelerated payment was made:

(i) The course or program was successfully completed, or if the course was not completed-

(A) The date the veteran or servicemember last attended; and

(B) An explanation why the course was not completed;

(ii) If the veteran or servicemember increased or decreased his or her training time-

(A) The date the veteran or servicemember increased or decreased training time; and

(B) The number of credit/clock hours pursued before and after each such change in training time; and

(iii) The accelerated payment was received and used.

(2) VA will establish an overpayment equal to the amount of the accelerated payment if the required certifications in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are not timely received.

(3) VA will determine the amount of the overpayment of benefits for courses not completed in the following manner-

(i) For a veteran or servicemember who does not complete the full course, courses, or program for which the accelerated payment was made, and who does not substantiate mitigating circumstances for not completing, VA will establish an overpayment equal to the amount of the accelerated payment.

(ii) For a veteran or servicemember who does not complete the full course, courses, or program for which the accelerated payment was made, but who substantiates mitigating circumstances for not completing, VA will prorate the amount of the accelerated payment to which he or she is entitled based on the number of days from the beginning date of the enrollment period through the date of last attendance. VA will determine the prorated amount by dividing the accelerated payment amount by the number of days in the enrollment period, and multiplying the result by the number of days from the beginning date of the enrollment period through the date of last attendance. The result of this calculation will equal the amount the individual is due. The difference between the accelerated payment and the amount the individual is due will be established as an overpayment.
