
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Definitions
###### ยง 21.7520 Definitions.
####### Mitigating circumstances.

(14)(i) Mitigating circumstances are circumstances beyond the reservist's control which prevent him or her from continuously pursuing a program of education. The following circumstances are representative of those which VA considers to be mitigating. This list is not all-inclusive.

(A) An illness of the reservist;

(B) An illness or death in the reservist's family;

(C) An unavoidable change in the reservist's conditions of employment;

(D) An unavoidable geographical transfer resulting from the reservist's employment;

(E) Immediate family or financial obligations beyond the control of the reservist which require him or her to suspend pursuit of the program of education to obtain employment;

(F) Discontinuance of the course by the educational institution;

(G) Unanticipated active duty for training; and

(H) Unanticipated difficulties in providing for child care for the reservist's child or children.

(ii) If a reservist withdraws from a course during a drop-add period, VA will consider the circumstances which caused the withdrawal to be mitigating.

(iii) In the first instance of a withdrawal after May 31, 1989, from a course or course for which the reservist received educational assistance under chapter 1606, title 10, U.S. Code, VA will consider that mitigating circumstances exist with respect to courses totaling not more than six semester hours or the equivalent. In determining whether a withdrawal is the first instance of withdrawal, VA will not consider courses dropped during an educational institution's drop-add period as provided in paragraph (b)(14)(ii) of this section.
