
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### General
###### ยง 3.3 Pension.
####### Section 306 pension.

(2)A benefit payable monthly by the Department of Veterans Affairs because of nonservice-connected disability or age. Basic entitlement exists if a veteran:

(i) Served 90 days or more in either the Mexican border period, World War I, World War II, the Korean conflict, or the Vietnam era, or served an aggregate of 90 days or more in separate periods of service during the same or during different war periods, including service during the Spanish-American War (Pub. L. 87-101, 75 Stat. 218; Pub. L. 90-77, 81 Stat. 178; Pub. L. 92-198, 85 Stat. 663); or

(ii) Served continuously for a period of 90 consecutive days or more and such period ended during the Mexican border period or World War I, or began or ended during World War II, the Korean conflict or the Vietnam era (Pub. L. 87-101, 75 Stat. 218; Pub. L. 88-664, 78 Stat. 1094; Pub. L. 90-77, 81 Stat. 178; Pub. L. 91-588, 84 Stat. 1580; Pub. L. 92-198, 85 Stat. 663; Pub. L. 94-169, 89 Stat. 1013; Pub. L. 95-204, 91 Stat. 1455); or

(iii) Was discharged or released from such wartime service, before having served 90 days, for a disability adjudged service connected without the benefit of presumptive provisions of law, or at the time of discharge had such a service-connected disability, shown by official service records, which in medical judgment would have justified a discharge for disability; and
