
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7540 Eligibility for educational assistance.
####### Basic eligibility requirements.

(a)A reservist must meet the requirements for a secondary school diploma (or an equivalency certificate) before applying for educational assistance. VA will decide whether a reservist met those requirements before applying for educational assistance. If the reservist applies before completing the requirements, VA will disallow the application. A reservist's premature application will not prevent the reservist from establishing eligibility at a later time by applying for educational assistance again after having completed the academic requirements. The Armed Forces will decide whether a reservist has met all the other eligibility criteria needed in order to receive educational assistance pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606. To be eligible a reservist:

(1) Shall:

(i) Enlist, reenlist, or extend an enlistment as a Reserve for service in the Selected Reserve so that the total period of obligated service is at least six years from the date of such enlistment, reenlistment, or extension; or

(ii) Be appointed as, or be serving as, a reserve officer and agree to serve in the Selected Reserve for a period of not less than six years in addition to any other period of obligated service in the Selected Reserve to which the person may be subject;

(2) Must complete his or her initial period of active duty for training;

(3) Must be participating satisfactorily in the Selected Reserve;

(4) Must not have elected to have his or her service in the Selected Reserve credited toward establishing eligibility to benefits provided under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30; and

(5) Must have met the requirements for a secondary school diploma (or an equivalency certificate) before applying for educational assistance.
