
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Eligibility
###### ยง 21.7550 Ending dates of eligibility.
####### Unit deactivated.

(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) or (e)(4) of this section, the period of eligibility of a reservist, eligible for educational assistance under this subpart, who ceases to become a member of the Selected Reserve during the period beginning October 1, 1991, and ending December 31, 2001, under either of the conditions described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section will expire on the date-

(i) 10 years after the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist became eligible before October 1, 1992; or

(ii) 14 years after the date the reservist becomes eligible for educational assistance if the reservist becomes eligible after September 30, 1992.

(2) The conditions referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for ceasing to be a member of the Selected Reserve are:

(i) The deactivation of the reservist's unit of assignment; and

(ii) The reservist's involuntarily ceasing to be designated as a member of the Selected Reserve pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 10143(a).

(3) The provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section do not apply if the reservist ceases to be a member of the Selected Reserve under adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary of the military department concerned. The expiration of such a reservist's period of eligibility will be on the date the reservist ceases, under adverse conditions, to be a member of the Selected Reserve.

(4) A reservist's period of eligibility will expire if he or she is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and (after having involuntarily ceased to be a member of the Selected Reserve) is involuntarily separated from the Armed Forces under adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary of the military department concerned. The expiration of such a reservist's period of eligibility will be on the date the reservist is involuntarily separated under adverse conditions from the Armed Forces.
