
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### General
###### ยง 3.3 Pension.
####### Improved pension; Pub. L. 95-588 (92 Stat. 2497).

(3)A benefit payable by the Department of Veterans Affairs to veterans of a period or periods of war because of nonservice-connected disability or age. The qualifying periods of war for this benefit are the Mexican border period, World War I, World War II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam era and the Persian Gulf War. Payments are made monthly unless the amount of the annual benefit is less than 4 percent of the maximum annual rate payable to a veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b), in which case payments may be made less frequently than monthly. Basic entitlement exists if a veteran:

(i) Served in the active military, naval, air, or space service for 90 days or more during a period of war (38 U.S.C. 1521(j)); or

(ii) Served in the active military, naval, air, or space service during a period of war and was discharged or released from such service for a disability adjudged service-connected without presumptive provisions of law, or at time of discharge had such a service-connected disability, shown by official service records, which in medical judgment would have justified a discharge for disability (38 U.S.C. 1521(j)); or

(iii) Served in the active military, naval, air, or space service for a period of 90 consecutive days or more and such period began or ended during a period of war (38 U.S.C. 1521(j)); or

(iv) Served in the active military, naval air, or space service for an aggregate of 90 days or more in two or more separate periods of service during more than one period of war (38 U.S.C. 1521(j)); and

(v) Meets the net worth requirements under ยง 3.274 and does not have an annual income in excess of the applicable maximum annual pension rate specified in ยง 3.23; and

(vi)(A) Is age 65 or older; or

(B) Is permanently and totally disabled from nonservice-connected disability not due to the veteran's own willfull misconduct. For purposes of this paragraph, a veteran is considered permanently and totally disabled if the veteran is any of the following:
