
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Entitlement
###### ยง 21.7576 Entitlement charges.
####### Determining entitlement charge.

(b)This paragraph states how VA will generally determine the charge against the entitlement of a reservist who is receiving educational assistance. However, when the circumstances described in paragraph (e) of this section apply to a reservist, VA will use that paragraph to determine an entitlement charge instead of this paragraph.

(1) Except for those pursuing flight training, correspondence training, cooperative training, apprenticeship or other on-job training, VA will make a charge against entitlement-

(i) On the basis of total elapsed time (one day for each day of pursuit for which the reservist is paid educational assistance) if the reservist is pursuing the program of education on a full-time basis; or

(ii) On the basis of a proportionate rate of elapsed time, if the reservist is pursuing the program of education on a three-quarter, one-half, or one-quarter-time basis.

(2) VA will compute elapsed time from the commencing date of the award of educational assistance to the date of discontinuance. If the reservist changes his or her training time after the commencing date of the award, VA will-

(i) Divide the enrollment period into separate periods of time during which the reservist's training time remains constant; and

(ii) Compute the elapsed time separately for each time period.

(3) For each month that a reservist is paid a monthly educational assistance allowance while undergoing apprenticeship or other on-job training, VA will make a charge against entitlement of-

(i) .75 of a month in the case of payments made during the first six months of the reservist's pursuit of the program of apprenticeship or other on-job training;

(ii) .55 of a month in the case of payments made during the second six months of the reservist's pursuit of the program of apprenticeship or other on-job training; and

(iii) .35 of a month in the case of payments made following the first twelve months of the reservist's pursuit of the program of apprenticeship or other on-job training.

(4) When a reservist is pursuing a program of education by correspondence, VA will make a charge against entitlement for each payment made to him or her. The charge will be made in months and decimal fractions of a month, as determined by dividing the amount of the payment by an amount equal to the rate stated in ยง 21.7636(a)(1) as the rate otherwise applicable to the reservist for full-time training.

(5) When a reservist is pursuing a program of education partly in residence and partly by correspondence, VA will make a charge against entitlement-

(i) For the residence portion of the program as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section; and

(ii) For the correspondence portion of the program as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(6) When a reservist is pursuing a program of education through cooperative training, VA will make a charge against entitlement of .8 of a month for each month in which the reservist is receiving payment at the rate for cooperative training. If the reservist is pursuing cooperative training for a portion of a month, VA will make a charge against entitlement on the basis of total elapsed time (.8 of a day for each day of pursuit).

(7) When a reservist is pursuing a program of education through flight training, VA will make a charge against entitlement at the rate of one month for each amount equal to the monthly rate stated in ยง 21.7636(a)(1) as applicable for the month in which the training occurred.
