
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### ยง 21.7642 Nonduplication of educational assistance.
####### Payments of educational assistance shall not be duplicated.

(a)A reservist is barred from receiving educational assistance concurrently under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 and any of the following provisions of law-

(1) 38 U.S.C. 30 (Montgomery GI Bill-Active Duty);

(2) 38 U.S.C. 31 (Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E));

(3) 38 U.S.C. 32 (Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance);

(4) 38 U.S.C. 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill);

(5) 38 U.S.C. 35 (Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance);

(6) 10 U.S.C. 1607 (Reserve Educational Assistance Program);

(7) 10 U.S.C. 106a (Educational Assistance Test Program);

(8) Section 903 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1981 (Pub. L. 96-342, 10 U.S.C. 2141 note);

(9) The Hostage Relief Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-449, 5 U.S.C. 5561 note); or

(10) The Omnibus Diplomatic Security Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-399).

(b) When paragraph (a) of this section applies, the reservist must choose which benefit he or she wishes to receive. The reservist may choose to receive benefits under another program (other than 38 U.S.C. chapter 33) at any time, but not more than once in a calendar month. The reservist may choose to receive benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 at any time, but not more than once during a certified term, quarter, or semester.
