
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Pursuit of Course and Required Reports
###### ยง 21.7652 Certification of enrollment and verification of pursuit.
####### Length of the enrollment period covered by the enrollment certification.

(b)(1) Educational institutions organized on a term, quarter or semester basis generally shall report enrollment for the term, quarter, semester, ordinary school year or ordinary school year plus summer term. If the certification covers two or more terms, the educational institution will report the dates for the break between terms if a term ends and the following term does not begin in the same or the next calendar month, or if the reservist elects not to be paid for the intervals between terms. The educational institution must submit a separate enrollment certification for each term, quarter or semester when the certification is for a reservist who is incarcerated in a Federal, State or local prison or jail for conviction of a felony.

(2) Educational institutions organized on a year-round basis will report enrollment for the length of the course. The certification will include a report of the dates during which the educational institution closes for any interval designated in its approval data as breaks between school years.

(3) When a reservist enrolls in independent study leading to a standard college degree concurrently with resident training, the educational institution's certification will include-

(i) The enrollment date, and

(ii) The ending date for the period being certified. If the educational institution has not prescribed maximum time for completion of the independent study portion of the enrollment, the certification must include an ending date for the independent study based on the educational institution's estimate for completion.
