
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Pursuit of Course and Required Reports
###### ยง 21.7653 Progress, conduct, and attendance.
####### Reports.

(d)At times the unsatisfactory progress, conduct, or course attendance of a reservist is caused by or results in his or her interruption or termination of training. If this occurs, the interruption or termination shall be reported in accordance with ยง 21.7656(a). If the reservist continues in training despite making unsatisfactory progress, the fact of his or her unsatisfactory progress must be reported to VA within the time allowed by paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section.

(1) A reservist's progress may become unsatisfactory as a result of the grades he or she receives. The educational institution shall report such unsatisfactory progress to VA in time for VA to receive it before the earlier of the following dates is reached:

(i) Thirty days from the date on which the school official who is responsible for determining whether a student is making progress first receives the final grade report which establishes that the reservist is not progressing satisfactorily; or

(ii) Sixty days from the last day of the enrollment period during which the reservist earned the grades that caused him or her to meet the unsatisfactory progress standards.

(2) If the unsatisfactory progress of the reservist is caused solely by any factors other than the grades which he or she receives, the educational institution shall report the unsatisfactory progress in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the progress of the reservist becomes unsatisfactory.

(3) The educational institution shall report the unsatisfactory conduct or attendance of the reservist to VA in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the conduct or attendance of the reservist becomes unsatisfactory.
