
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Pursuit of Course and Required Reports
###### ยง 21.7656 Other required reports.
####### Interruptions, terminations or changes in hours of credit or attendance.

(b)When a reservist interrupts or terminates his or her training for any reason, including unsatisfactory conduct or progress, or when he or she changes the number of hours of credit or attendance, the educational institution must report this fact to VA.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an educational institution must report without delay to VA each time a reservist:

(i) Interrupts or terminates his or her training for any reason; or

(ii) Changes his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance.

(2) An educational institution does not need to report a change in a reservist's hours of credit or attendance when:

(i) The reservist is enrolled full time in a program of education for a standard term, quarter, or semester before the change; and

(ii) The reservist continues to be enrolled full time after the change.

(3) If the change in status or change in number of credit hours or clock hours of attendance occurs on a day other than one indicated by paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section, the educational institution will initiate a report of the change in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the change occurs.

(4) If the educational institution has certified the reservist's enrollment for more than one term, quarter or semester and the reservist interrupts his or her training at the end of a term, quarter or semester within the certified enrollment period, the educational institution shall report the change in status to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days of the last officially scheduled registration date for the next term, quarter or semester.

(5) If the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance occurs during the 30 days of a drop-add period, the educational institution must report the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days from the last date of the drop-add period or 60 days from the first day of the enrollment period, whichever occurs first.
