
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Course Assessment
###### § 21.7672 Measurement of courses not leading to a standard college degree.
####### Credit-hour measurement-standard method.

(b)(1) When all the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met, the Department of Veterans Affairs will-

(i) Measure the reservist's enrollment in the same manner as collegiate undergraduate courses are measured in § 21.7670 (a), (b), and (c).

(ii) Apply the provisions of § 21.4272(g) if one or more of the reservist's courses are offered during a nonstandard term.

(2) For new enrollments beginning on or after July 1, 1993, when a course is offered by an institution of higher learning in residence on a standard quarter- or semester-hour basis, VA will measure a reservist's enrollment in a course not leading to a standard college degree on the same credit-hour basis as courses leading to a standard undergraduate degree, as provided in § 21.7670.

(3) For new enrollments beginning on or after July 1, 1993, when a course is offered in residence on a standard quarter- or semester-hour basis by an educational institution which is not an institution of higher learning, VA also will measure on a credit-hour basis as provided in § 21.7670 a reservist's enrollment in a course not leading to a standard college degree, provided that the educational institution requires at least the same number of clock-hours of attendance as required in paragraph (c) of this section. If the educational institution does not require at least the same number of clock-hours of attendance as required in paragraph (c) of this section, VA will not apply the provisions of § 21.7670, but will measure the course according to paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) VA will apply the provisions of § 21.4272(g) to new enrollments beginning on or after July 1, 1993, if one or more of the reservist's courses are offered during a nonstandard term.
