
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart L - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selected Reserve
##### Course Assessment
###### ยง 21.7672 Measurement of courses not leading to a standard college degree.
####### Clock-hour measurement.

(c)The provisions of this paragraph apply to all enrollments in courses not leading to a standard college degree. If VA concludes that the courses in which a reservist is enrolled do not qualify for credit-hour measurement, VA shall measure those courses as follows. (Supervised study shall be excluded from measurement of all courses to which this paragraph applies).

(1) If shop practice is an integral part of the course-

(i) Full-time training shall be 22 clock hours attendance with not more than 2hours rest period allowance;

(ii) Three-quarter-time training shall be 16 through 21 clock hours attendance with not more than 2 hours rest period allowance;

(iii) Half-time training shall be 11 through 15 clock hours attendance with not more than 1hours rest period allowance; and

(iv) One-quarter-time training shall be 1 through 10 clock hours attendance. For attendance of 6 through 10 clock hours, there shall be not more than one quarter hour rest period allowance. For attendance of 1 through 5 clock hours, there shall be no rest period allowance.

(2) If theory and class instruction predominates-

(i) Full-time training is 18 clock hours net instruction;

(ii) Three-quarter-time training is 13 through 17 clock hours net instruction;

(iii) Half-time training is 9 through 12 clock hours net instruction; and

(iv) Less than half-time training is 1 through 8 clock hours net instruction. In measuring net instruction for this paragraph there will be included customary intervals not to exceed 10 minutes between classes: however, supervised study must be excluded.
