
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart M - Vocational Training and Rehabilitation for Certain Children of Vietnam Veterans and Veterans with Covered Service in Korea - Spina Bifida and Covered Birth Defects
##### Vocational Training, Services, and Assistance
###### § 21.8120 Vocational training, services, and assistance.
####### Training permitted.

(b)VA and the child will select vocationally oriented courses of study and training, completion of which usually results in a diploma, certificate, degree, qualification for licensure, or direct placement in employment. The educational and training services to be provided include:

(1) Remedial, deficiency, and refresher training; and

(2) Training that leads to an identifiable vocational goal. Under this program, VA may authorize all forms of programs that §§ 21.122 through 21.132 describe. This includes education and training programs in institutions of higher education. VA may authorize the education and training at an undergraduate or graduate degree level, only if the degree program is predominantly vocational in nature. For an eligible child to participate in a graduate degree program, the graduate degree must be a requirement for entry into the child's vocational goal. For example, a master's degree is required to engage in social work. The program of training is predominantly vocational in content if the majority of the instruction provides the technical skills and knowledge employers generally regard as specific to, and required for, entry into the child's vocational goal.
