
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart P - Post-9/11 GI Bill
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### ยง 21.9635 Discontinuance dates.
####### Reduction in the rate of pursuit of a program of education.

(d)If the eligible individual reduces the rate of pursuit by withdrawing from one or more courses in a program of education but continues training in one or more courses, VA will apply the provisions of this paragraph.

(1) If the reduction in the rate of pursuit occurs other than on the first date of the term, VA will reduce the eligible individual's educational assistance effective the end of the month during which the reduction occurred when the circumstances in either paragraphs (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) apply-

(i) A nonpunitive grade is assigned for the course from which the eligible individual withdraws and the withdrawal occurs with mitigating circumstances.

(ii) A punitive grade is assigned for the course from which the eligible individual withdraws.

(2) VA will reduce educational assistance effective the first date of the enrollment in which the reduction occurs when-

(i) The reduction occurs on the first date of the term; or

(ii) A nonpunitive grade is assigned for the course from which the eligible individual withdraws, and-

(A) The eligible individual does not withdraw because he or she is called to active duty service, or in the case of an individual serving on active duty, he or she is not ordered to a new duty location or assignment, or is not ordered to perform an increased amount of work, and

(B) The withdrawal occurs without mitigating circumstances.

(3) An eligible individual enrolled in several courses within a program of education, who reduces his or her rate of pursuit by completing one or more of the courses while continuing training in others, may receive an interval payment based on the total number of enrolled courses he or she completed if the requirements of ยง 21.9680(b)(5) are met. If those requirements are not met, VA will reduce the eligible individual's educational assistance effective the end of the month during which the individual completed each course (or courses).
