
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart P - Post-9/11 GI Bill
##### Payments - Educational Assistance
###### § 21.9695 Overpayments.
####### Liability for overpayments.

(b)(1) An overpayment of educational assistance paid to an eligible individual constitutes a liability of that individual unless-

(i) The overpayment was waived as provided in §§ 1.957 and 1.962 of this chapter, or

(ii) The overpayment results from an administrative error or an error in judgment. See § 21.9635(r).

(2) An overpayment of educational assistance paid to the institution of higher learning on behalf of an eligible individual constitutes a liability of the individual unless the individual never attended the term, quarter, or semester certified by the institution of higher learning. If the individual never attended the term, quarter, or semester certified by the institution of higher learning, the institution must return to VA all educational assistance received under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 33 on behalf of the individual for such term, quarter, or semester.

(3) The amount of the overpayment of educational assistance paid to the eligible individual, or paid to the institution of higher learning on behalf of the eligible individual, constitutes a liability of the institution of higher learning if VA determines that the overpayment is the result of willful or negligent-

(i) False certification by the institution of higher learning; or

(ii) Failure to certify excessive absences from a course, discontinuance of a course, or interruption of a course by the eligible individual.

(iii) In determining whether an overpayment resulting from the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section should be recovered from an institution of higher learning, VA will apply the provisions of § 21.4009 (except paragraph (a)(1)) to overpayments of educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 33.

(4) VA will determine the amount of an overpayment as follows-

(i) For an individual who does not complete one or more courses in the certified period of enrollment for which he or she received payment, and who does not substantiate mitigating circumstances for not completing such course or courses, VA will establish an overpayment equal to the amount of educational assistance paid for the course or courses not completed during that certified period of enrollment.

(ii) For an individual who does not complete one or more courses in the certified period of enrollment, but who substantiates mitigating circumstances for not completing such course or courses, VA will prorate the amount of educational assistance to which he or she is entitled.

(A) VA will determine the prorated amount of the established charges by dividing the amount the individual was paid for the course or courses not completed by the number of days in the certified enrollment period, and multiplying the result by the number of days from the beginning date of the enrollment period through the last date of attendance. The result of this calculation will equal the amount the individual is due. The difference between the amount of educational assistance paid and the amount of educational assistance the individual is due for the course or courses not completed will be established as an overpayment.

(B) VA will determine the prorated amount of the monthly housing allowance by determining the amount the individual was entitled to while enrolled and subtracting that amount from the total amount paid. The difference between the amount of the monthly housing allowance paid and the amount of the monthly housing allowance the individual is due will be established as an overpayment.

(C) Individuals who have substantiated mitigating circumstances will not be charged an overpayment for the lump sum payment for books, supplies, equipment, and other educational costs ("book stipend").
