
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart P - Post-9/11 GI Bill
##### Pursuit of Courses
###### ยง 21.9720 Certification of enrollment.
####### Length of the enrollment period covered by the enrollment certification.

(b)(1) Institutions of higher learning that offer courses on a term, quarter, or semester basis will report enrollment for the term, quarter, semester, ordinary school year, or ordinary school year plus summer term. If the certification covers two or more terms, the institution of higher learning will report each term, quarter, or semester separately.

(2) Institutions of higher learning organized on a year-round basis that do not offer courses on a term, quarter, or semester basis will report enrollment for the length of the course. The certification will include a report of the dates during which the institution of higher learning closes for any intervals designated in its approval data as breaks between school years.

(3) When an eligible individual enrolls in a distance learning program leading to a standard college degree, the institution of higher learning's certification will include-

(i) The enrollment date; and

(ii) The ending date for the period being certified. If the institution of higher learning has no prescribed maximum time for completion, the certification must include an ending date based on the educational institution's estimate for completion.
