
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 21 - VETERAN READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION
#### Subpart P - Post-9/11 GI Bill
##### Course Assessment
###### ยง 21.9750 Course measurement.
####### High school courses.

(d)If an individual using transferred entitlement is eligible for pursuit of a secondary school diploma or equivalency certificate, VA will determine the rate of pursuit in accordance with this paragraph. For individuals pursuing high school courses measured in-

(1) Credit hours, VA will use the formula in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Clock hours, VA will use the formula in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Units, VA will convert the units to credit hours as follows-

(i) Divide the total number of units required for the program of education by 4 (the number of ordinary school years generally required for completion);

(ii) Round the result of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section to the nearest whole number.

(iii) Multiply the result of paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section by:

(A) 1.0 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 100 percent. This number is equivalent to 14 credit hours;

(B) .75 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 75 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 10.5 credit hours for any number of units equal to or greater than the number determined in this paragraph but less than the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(A) of this section;

(C) .50 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 50 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 7 credit hours for any number of units equal to or greater than the number determined in this paragraph but less than the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section;

(D) .25 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 25 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 3.5 credit hours for any number of units up to the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.
