
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### general provisions
###### ยง 36.4205 Computation of guaranty.

(a) The amount of guaranty in respect to a loan guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712 shall be forty (40) percent of the original principal amount of the loan or $20,000, whichever is less. With respect to a loan guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F), the dollar amount of guaranty may not exceed the original dollar amount of guaranty on the loan being refinanced. With respect to a loan guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(G), the dollar amount of guaranty previously used to obtain a manufactured unit loan may be transferred pursuant to ยง 36.4224(b) for use in refinancing the unit when simultaneously acquiring a lot.

(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of ยง 36.4203, the following formulas will determine the amount of guaranty entitlement which remains available to an eligible veteran after prior use of entitlement:

(1) If a veteran previously secured a nonrealty (business) loan, the amount of nonrealty entitlement used is doubled and subtracted from $36,000. The sum remaining is the amount of available entitlement for use not to exceed $20,000 for manufactured home purposes.

(2) If a veteran previously secured a realty (home) loan, the amount of realty (home) loan entitlement used is subtracted from $36,000. The sum remaining is the amount of available entitlement for use not to exceed $20,000 for manufactured home purposes.

(3) If a veteran previously secured a manufactured home loan, the amount of entitlement used for manufactured home purposes is subtracted from $36,000. The sum remaining is the amount of available entitlement for use for home loan purposes only. To determine the amount of additional entitlement available for manufactured home purposes, the amount of entitlement previously used for manufactured home purposes is subtracted from $20,000. Except for manufactured home loans to be obtained pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F) or (G), the sum remaining is the amount of available entitlement for use for manufactured home purposes.

(c) For the purpose of computing the remaining guaranty benefit to which a veteran is entitled, manufactured home and manufactured home lot loans guaranteed prior to October 1, 1978, shall be taken into consideration as if made subsequent thereto, and the veteran's entitlement will be reduced by the amount of the Secretary's guaranty issued in the particular loan transaction.

(d) A guaranty is reduced or increased pro rata with any deduction or increase in the amount of the guaranteed indebtedness, but in no event will the amount payable on a guaranty exceed the amount of the original guaranty or the percentage of the indebtedness corresponding to that of the original guaranty.

(e) The amount of any guaranty for a manufactured home or manufactured home lot loan shall be charged against the original or remainder of the borrower's guaranty benefit available for manufactured home purposes. Complete or partial liquidation, by payment or otherwise, of the veteran's guaranteed indebtedness does not increase the remainder of the guaranty benefit, if any, otherwise available to the veteran. When the maximum guaranty available legally to a veteran for manufactured home purposes shall have been granted, no further guaranty for manufactured home purposes shall be available to the veteran.

(f)(1) The amount of guaranty entitlement, available and unused, of an eligible unremarried surviving spouse (whose eligibility does not result from his or her own service) is determinable in the same manner as in the case of any veteran, and any entitlement which the decedent (who was his or her spouse) used shall be disregarded. A certificate as to the eligibility of such surviving spouse, issued by the Secretary, shall be a condition precedent to the guaranty or insurance of any loan made to a surviving spouse in such capacity.

(2) For the purpose of obtaining an interest rate reduction refinancing loan pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F), an unmarried surviving spouse who was a co-obligor under an existing Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed loan shall be considered to be eligible for the 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F) benefit.
