
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### general provisions
###### ยง 36.4212 Interest rates and late charges.
####### Initial rate and magnitude of changes.

(4)The initial contract interest rate of an adjustable rate mortgage shall be agreed upon by the lender and the veteran. The rate must be reflective of adjustable rate lending. Annual adjustments in the interest rate shall be set at a certain spread or margin over the interest rate index prescribed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Except for the initial rate, this margin shall remain constant over the life of the loan. Annual adjustments to the contract interest rate shall correspond to annual changes in the interest rate index, subject to the following conditions and limitations:

(i) No single adjustment to the interest rate may result in a change in either direction of more than one percentage point from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of one percentage point may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment in a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than five percentage points from the initial contract interest rate.

(ii) At each adjustment date, changes in the index interest rate, whether increases or decreases, must be translated into the adjusted mortgage interest rate, rounded to the nearest one-eighth of one percent, up or down. For example, if the margin is 2 percent and the new index figure is 6.06 percent, the adjusted mortgage interest rate will be 8 percent. If the margin is 2 percent and the new index figure is 6.07 percent, the adjusted mortgage interest rate will be 8percent.
