
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### general provisions
###### ยง 36.4225 Authority to close manufactured home loans on the automatic basis.
####### Experience.

(2)The firm must have been actively engaged in originating manufactured home loans for at least the last 2 years. Alternately, each principal officer of the firm who is actively involved in managing origination functions must have a minimum of 2 recent years' total experience in the field of VA manufactured home mortgages in managerial functions in either the present company of employment or in companies other than that of his or her present employment. In either case, every principal officer (president and vice presidents) must submit a resume of his or her experience in the mortgage lending field. Should the secretary and/or treasurer participate in the management of origination functions, they too must submit a resume and meet the minimum experience requirement if the company does not meet the experience requirement. Should the lender or any of its directors or officers ever have been debarred or suspended by any Federal agency or department or any of its directors or officers have been a director or officer of any other lender or corporation that was so suspended, or if the lender-applicant ever had a servicing contract with an investor terminated for cause, a statement of the facts must also be submitted. Lender-applicants will submit individual requests for each branch office they wish to have approved. The parent organization must agree to accept full responsibility for the actions of branch offices.
