
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### financing manufactured home units
###### ยง 36.4231 Warranty requirements.

(a) When a new manufactured home purchased with financing guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712 is delivered to the veteran-borrower he or she will be supplied a written warranty by the manufacturer in the form and content prescribed by the Secretary. Such warranty shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, all other rights and privileges which such purchaser or owner may have under any other law or instrument, and the warranty instrument will so provide. No evidence of guaranty shall be issued by the Secretary unless a copy of such warranty duly receipted by the purchaser is submitted with the loan papers.

(b) Any manufactured housing unit properly displaying a certification of conformity to all applicable Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5415 shall be acceptable as security for a VA guaranteed loan.

(c) When a used manufactured home is purchased from a manufactured home dealer with financing guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712 the veteran-borrower must be supplied with a written warranty by the manufactured home dealer in the form and content prescribed by the Secretary. Such warranty shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, all other rights and privileges which such purchaser or owner may have under any other law or instrument, and the warranty instrument will so provide. No evidence of guaranty shall be issued by the Secretary unless a copy of such warranty duly receipted by the purchaser is submitted with the loan papers.
