
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### financing manufactured home units
###### ยง 36.4232 Allowable fees and charges; manufactured home unit.

(a) Incident to the origination of a guaranteed loan for the purchase or refinancing of a manufactured home unit only, no charge shall be made against, or paid by, the veteran-borrower without the express prior approval of the Secretary except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section and as follows:

(1) Actual fees or charges for required recordation of documents;

(2) The costs of independent fee inspections for itemized items included in the manufactured home loan, as required by ยง 36.4204(f);

(3) The amount of any documentary stamp taxes levied on the transaction;

(4) The amount of State and local taxes levied on the transaction;

(5) The premium for customary physical damage insurance and vendor's single interest coverage on the manufactured home for an initial policy term of not to exceed one (1) year;

(6) The premium for insurance against loss for items missing at time of repossession and for repossession expenses, unless State law prohibits charging borrowers for this coverage, in which case the lender is required to pay for the coverage without reimbursement from the veteran;

(7) For the purposes of obtaining a refinancing loan for interest rate reduction or a refinancing loan to simultaneously refinance a unit and acquire a lot, the cost of a credit report and an appraisal; and

(8) The actual amount charged for flood zone determinations, including a charge for a life-of-the-loan flood zone determination service purchased at the time of loan origination, if made by a third party who guarantees the accuracy of the determination. A fee may not be charged for a flood zone determination made by a Department of Veterans Affairs appraiser or for the lender's own determination.

(b) Any charge against the borrower properly made under paragraph (a) of this section may be included in the loan and paid out of the proceeds of the loan provided the total loan amount does not exceed 145 percent of the manufacturer's invoice.

(c)(1) Costs of a credit report (except for 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F) or (G) refinancing loans) such additional insurance as the veteran may desire, and any other expenses normally charged to a manufactured home purchaser under local customs may be paid by the borrower other than from the loan proceeds.

(2) For the purchase of a used manufactured home unit, the fee of a Department of Veterans Affairs appraiser and of compliance inspectors designated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, except appraisal fees incurred for the predetermination of reasonable value requested by others than veteran or lender, may be paid by the borrower from other than the loan proceeds.

(d) Subject to the limitations set forth in this section, the following may be included in the loan made for the purchase of a new (not used) manufactured home unit and paid out of the proceeds of the loan:

(1) The actual cost of transportation or freight;

(2) Setup charges for installing the manufactured home on site not to exceed $400 for a single-wide manufactured home or $800 for a double-wide manufactured home.

(e)(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, a fee must be paid to the Secretary. A fee of 1 percent of the total amount must be paid in a manner prescribed by the Secretary before a manufactured home unit loan will be eligible for guaranty. Provided, however, that the fee shall be 0.50 percent of the total loan amount for interest rate reduction refinancing loans guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F). All or part of the fee may be paid in cash at loan closing or all or part of the fee may be included in the loan without regard to the reasonable value of the property or the computed maximum loan amount, as appropriate. In computing the fee, the lender shall disregard any amount included in the loan to enable the borrower to pay such fee.

(2) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, a fee of one-half of one percent of the loan balance must be paid to the Secretary in a manner prescribed by the Secretary by a person assuming a loan to which section 3714 of chapter 37 of 38 U.S.C. applies. The instrument securing such a loan shall contain a provisions describing the right of the holder to collect this fee as trustee for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The loan holder shall list the amount of this fee in every assumption statement provided and include a notice that the fee must be paid to the holder immediately following loan settlement. The fee must be transmitted to the Secretary within 15 days of receipt by the holder of notice of the transfer.

(3) The lender is required to pay to the Secretary the fee described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section within 15 days after loan closing. Any lender closing a loan, subject to the limitations set out in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, who fails to submit timely payment of this fee will be subject to a late charge equal to 4 percent of the total fee due. If payment of the 1 percent fee is more than 30 days after loan closing, interest will be assessed at a rate set in conformity with the Department of Treasury's Fiscal Requirements Manual. This interest charge is in addition to the 4 percent late charge, but the late charge is not included in the amount on which interest is computed. This interest charge is to be calculated on a daily basis beginning on the date of closing, although the interest will be assessed only on funding fee payments received more than 30 days after closing.

(4) The lender is required to pay to the Secretary electronically through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) system the fees described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section and any late fees and interest due on them. This shall be paid to a collection agent by operator-assisted telephone, terminal entry, or central processing unit-to-central processing unit (CPU-to-CPU) transmission. The collection agent will be identified by the Secretary. The lender shall provide the collection agent with the following: authorization for payment of the funding fee (including late fees and interest) along with the following information: VA lender ID number; four-digit personal identification number; dollar amount of debit; VA loan number; OJ (office of jurisdiction) code; closing date; loan amount; information about whether the payment includes a shortage, late charge, or interest; veteran name; loan type; sale amount; downpayment; whether the veteran is a reservist; and whether this is a subsequent use of entitlement. For all transactions received prior to 8:15 p.m. on a workday, VA will be credited with the amount paid to the collection agent at the opening of business the next banking day.

(5) The fee described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section shall not be collected from a veteran who is receiving compensation (or who but for the receipt of retirement pay would be entitled to receive compensation) or from a surviving spouse described in section 3701(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code.
