
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart A - Guaranty of Loans to Veterans to Purchase Manufactured Homes and Lots, Including Site Preparation
##### servicing, liquidation of security and claim
###### ยง 36.4278 Servicing procedures for holders.
####### Collection actions.

(g)(1) Holders should employ collection techniques which provide flexibility to adapt to the individual needs and circumstances of each borrower. A variety of collection techniques may be used based on the holder's determination of the most effective means of contact with borrowers during various stages of delinquency. However, at a minimum, the holder's collection procedures must include the following actions:

(i) A written delinquency notice to the borrower(s) requesting immediate payment if a loan installment has not been received within 17 days after the due date. This notice must be mailed no later than the 20th day of the delinquency and state the amount of the payment and of any late charges that are due.

(ii) An effort, concurrent with the written delinquency notice, to establish contact with the borrower(s) by telephone. When talking with the borrower(s), the holder should attempt to determine why payment was not made and emphasize the importance of remitting loan installments as they come due.

(iii) A letter to the borrower(s) if payment has not been received within 30 days after it is due and telephone contact could not be made. This letter should emphasize the seriousness of the delinquency and the importance of taking prompt action to resolve the default. It should also notify the borrower(s) that the loan is in default, state the total amount due and advise the borrower(s) how to contact the holder to make arrangements for curing the default.

(iv) In the event the holder has not established contact with the borrower(s) and has not determined the financial circumstances of the borrower(s) or established a reason for the default or obtained agreement to a repayment plan from the borrower(s), then a face-to-face interview with the borrower(s) or a reasonable effort to arrange such a meeting is required.

(2) The holder must provide a valid explanation of any failure to perform these collection actions when reporting loan defaults to the Secretary. A pattern of such failure may be a basis for sanctions under 38 CFR 36.4216.
