
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4303 Reporting requirements.
###### Provided

(e) Upon the failure of the lender to report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, the certificate of commitment shall have no further effect, or the amount of guaranty or insurance shall be reduced pro rata, as may be appropriate under the facts of the case:, nevertheless, that if the loan otherwise meets the requirements of this section, said certificate of commitment may be given effect by the Secretary, notwithstanding the report is received after the date otherwise required.

(f) For loans not reported within 60 days, evidence of guaranty will be issued only if the loan report is accompanied by a statement signed by a corporate officer of the lending institution which explains why the loan was reported late. The statement must identify the case or cases in issue and must set forth the specific reason or reasons why the loan was not submitted on time. Upon receipt of such a statement evidence of guaranty will be issued. A pattern of late reporting and the reasons therefore will be considered by VA in taking action under ยง 36.4353.

(g) Evidence of a guaranty will be issued by the Secretary by appropriate endorsement on the note or other instrument evidencing the obligation, or by a separate certificate at the option of the lender. Notice of credit to an insurance account will be given to the lender. Unused certificates of eligibility issued prior to March 1, 1946, are void. No certificate of commitment shall be issued and no loan shall be guaranteed or insured unless the lender, the veteran, and the loan are shown to be eligible. Evidence of guaranty or insurance will not be issued on any loan for the purchase or construction of residential property unless the veteran, or the veteran's spouse in the case of a veteran who cannot occupy the property because of active duty status with the Armed Forces, certifies in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe that the veteran, or spouse of the active duty veteran, intends to occupy the property as his or her home. Guaranty or insurance evidence will not be issued on any loan for the alteration, improvement, or repair of any residential property or on a refinancing loan unless the veteran, or spouse of an active duty servicemember, certifies that he or she presently occupies the property as his or her home. An exception to this is if the home improvement or refinancing loan is for extensive changes to the property that will prevent the veteran or the spouse of the active duty veteran from occupying the property while the work is being completed. In such a case the veteran or spouse of the active duty veteran must certify that he or she intends to occupy or reoccupy the property as his or her home upon completion of the substantial improvements or repairs. All of the mentioned certifications must take place at the time of loan application and closing except in the case of loans automatically guaranteed, in which case veterans or, in the case of an active duty veteran, the veteran's spouse shall make the required certification only at the time the loan is closed.

(h) Subject to compliance with the regulations concerning guaranty or insurance of loans to veterans, the certificate of guaranty or the evidence of insurance credit will be issuable within the available entitlement of the veteran on the basis of the loan stated in the final loan report or certification of loan disbursement, except for refinancing loans for interest rate reductions. The available entitlement of a veteran will be determined by the Secretary as of the date of receipt of an application for guaranty or insurance of a loan or of a loan report. Such date of receipt shall be the date the application or loan report is date-stamped into VA. Eligibility derived from the most recent period of service:

(1) Shall cancel any unused entitlement derived from any earlier period of service, and

(2) Shall be reduced by the amount by which entitlement from service during any earlier period has been used to obtain a direct, guaranteed, or insured loan:

(i) On property which the veteran owns at the time of application, or
