
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### § 36.4303 Reporting requirements.
###### Provided

(ii) As to which the Secretary has incurred actual liability or loss, unless in the event of loss or the incurrence and payment of such liability by the Secretary, the resulting indebtedness of the veteran to the United States has been paid in full., that if the Secretary issues or has issued a certificate of commitment covering the loan described in the application for guaranty or insurance or in the loan report, the amount and percentage of guaranty or the amount of the insurance credit contemplated by the certificate of commitment shall not be subject to reduction if the loan has been or is closed on a date that is not later than the expiration date of the certificate of commitment, notwithstanding that the Secretary in the meantime and prior to the issuance of the evidence of guaranty or insurance shall have incurred actual liability or loss on a direct, guaranteed, or insured loan previously obtained by the borrower. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary will be deemed to have incurred actual loss on a guaranteed or insured loan if the Secretary has paid a guaranty or insurance claim thereon and the veteran's resultant indebtedness to the Government has not been paid in full, and to have incurred actual liability on a guaranteed or insured loan if the Secretary is in receipt of a claim on the guaranty or insurance or is in receipt of a notice of default. In the case of a direct loan, the Secretary will be deemed to have incurred an actual loss if the loan is in default. A loan, the proceeds of which are to be disbursed progressively or at intervals, will be deemed to have been closed for the purposes of this paragraph if the loan has been completed in all respects excepting the actual "payout" of the entire loan proceeds.

(i) Any amounts that are disbursed for an ineligible purpose shall be excluded in computing the amount of guaranty or insurance credit.

(j) Notwithstanding the lender has erroneously, but without intent to misrepresent, made certification with respect to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the guaranty or insurance will become effective upon the curing of such default and its continuing current for a period of not less than 60 days thereafter. For the purpose of this paragraph a loan will be deemed current so long as the installment is received within 30 days after its due date.

(k) No guaranty or insurance commitment or evidence of guaranty or insurance will be issuable in respect to any loan to finance a contract that:

(1) Is for the purchase, construction, repair, alteration, or improvement of a dwelling or farm residence;

(2) Is dated on or after June 4, 1969;

(3) Provides for a purchase price or cost to the veteran in excess of the reasonable value established by the Secretary; and

(4) Was signed by the veteran prior to the veteran's receipt of notice of such reasonable value; unless such contract includes, or is amended to include, a provision that reads substantially as follows:

(l) With respect to any loan for which a commitment was made on or after March 1, 1988, the Secretary must be notified whenever the holder receives knowledge of disposition of the residential property securing a VA-guaranteed loan.

(1) If the seller applies for prior approval of the assumption of the loan, then:

(i) A holder (or its authorized servicing agent) who is an automatic lender must examine the creditworthiness of the purchaser and determine compliance with the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3714. The creditworthiness review must be performed by the party that has automatic authority. If both the holder and its servicing agent are automatic lenders, then they must decide between themselves which one will make the determination of creditworthiness, whether the loan is current and whether there is a contractual obligation to assume the loan, as required by 38 U.S.C. 3714. If the actual loan holder does not have automatic authority and its servicing agent is an automatic lender, then the servicing agent must make the determinations required by 38 U.S.C. 3714 on behalf of the holder. The actual holder will remain ultimately responsible for any failure of its servicing agent to comply with the applicable law and VA regulations.

(A) If the assumption is approved and the transfer of the security is completed, then the notice required by this paragraph (l) shall consist of the credit package (unless previously provided in accordance with paragraph (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section) and a copy of the executed deed and/or assumption agreement as required by VA office of jurisdiction. The notice shall be submitted to the Department with the VA receipt for the funding fee provided for in § 36.4313(e)(2).

(B) If the application for assumption is disapproved, the holder shall notify the seller and the purchaser that the decision may be appealed to the VA office of jurisdiction within 30 days. The holder shall make available to that VA office all items used by the holder in making the holder's decision in case the decision is appealed to VA. If the application remains disapproved after 60 days (to allow time for appeal to and review by VA), then the holder must refund $50 of any fee previously collected under the provisions of § 36.4313(d)(8). If the application is subsequently approved and the sale is completed, then the holder (or its authorized servicing agent) shall provide the notice described in paragraph (l)(1)(i)(A) of this section.

(C) In performing the requirements of paragraphs (l)(1)(i)(A) or (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the holder must complete its examination of the creditworthiness of the prospective purchaser and advise the seller no later than 45 days after the date of receipt by the holder of a complete application package for the approval of the assumption. The 45-day period may be extended by an interval not to exceed the time caused by delays in processing of the application that are documented as beyond the control of the holder, such as employers or depositories not responding to requests for verifications, which were timely forwarded, or follow-ups on those requests.

(ii) If neither the holder nor its authorized servicing agent is an automatic lender, the notice to VA shall include:

(A) Advice regarding whether the loan is current or in default;

(B) A copy of the purchase contract; and

(C) A complete credit package developed by the holder which the Secretary may use for determining the creditworthiness of the purchaser.

(D) The notice and documents required by this section must be submitted to the VA office of jurisdiction no later than 35 days after the date of receipt by the holder of a complete application package for the approval of the assumption, subject to the same extensions as provided in paragraph (l)(l)(i) of this section. If the assumption is not automatically approved by the holder or its authorized agent, pursuant to the automatic authority provisions, $50 of any fee collected in accordance with § 36.4313(d)(8) must be refunded. If the Department of Veterans Affairs does not approve the assumption, the holder will be notified and an additional $50 of any fee collected under § 36.4313(d)(8) must be refunded following the expiration of the 30-day appeal period set out in paragraph (l)(l)(i)(B) of this section. If such an appeal is made to the Department of Veterans Affairs, then the review will be conducted at the Department of Veterans Affairs office of jurisdiction by an individual who was not involved in the original disapproval decision. If the application for assumption is approved and the transfer of security is completed, then the holder (or its authorized servicing agent) shall provide the notice required in paragraph (l)(l)(i)(A) of this section.

(2) If the seller fails to notify the holder before disposing of property securing the loan, the holder shall notify the Secretary within 60 days after learning of the transfer. Such notice shall advise whether or not the holder intends to exercise its option to immediately accelerate the loan and whether or not an opportunity will be extended to the transferor and transferee to apply for retroactive approval of the assumption under the terms of this paragraph (l).
