
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4312 Interest rates.

(a) In guaranteeing or insuring loans under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, the Secretary may elect to require that such loans either bear interest at a rate that is agreed upon by the veteran and the lender, or bear interest at a rate not in excess of a rate established by the Secretary. The Secretary may, from time to time, change that election by publishing a notice in theHowever, the interest rate of a loan for the purpose of an interest rate reduction under 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(8), (a)(9)(B)(i), or (a)(11) must be less than the interest rate of the VA loan being refinanced. This paragraph does not apply in the case of an adjustable rate mortgage being refinanced under 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(8), (a)(9)(B)(i), or (a)(11) with a fixed rate loan.

(b) For loans bearing an interest rate agreed upon by the veteran and the lender, the veteran may pay reasonable discount points in connection with the loan. The discount points may not be included in the loan amount, except for interest rate reduction refinancing loans under 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(8), (a)(9)(B)(i), and (a)(11). For loans bearing an interest rate agreed upon by the veteran and the lender, the provisions of ยง 36.4313(d)(6) and (d)(7) do not apply.

(c) Except as provided in ยง 36.4315, interest in excess of the rate reported by the lender when requesting evidence of guaranty or insurance shall not be payable on any advance, or in the event of any delinquency or default: Provided, that a late charge not in excess of an amount equal to 4 percent on any installment paid more than 15 days after due date shall not be considered a violation of this limitation.

(d) Effective October 1, 2003, adjustable rate mortgage loans which comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d) are eligible for guaranty.
