
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4317 Servicer reporting requirements.
###### i.e.

(c) Servicers shall report to the Secretary the following specific loan events in accordance with the timeframes described for each event. Unless otherwise specified herein, the servicer shall report these events on a monthly basis (, no later than the 7th calendar day of the month following the month in which the event occurred) only for delinquent loans in its portfolio.

(1) Loan paid in full-when the loan obligation has been fully satisfied by receipt of funds and not a servicing transfer. The servicer shall report this event regardless of delinquency status.

(2) Authorized transfer of ownership-when the servicer learns that an authorized transfer of ownership has been completed. The servicer shall report this event regardless of delinquency status.

(3) Release of liability-when an obligor has been released from liability. The servicer shall report this event regardless of delinquency status.

(4) Partial release of security-when the holder has released the lien on a part of the security for the loan pursuant to ยง 36.4327. The servicer shall report this event regardless of delinquency status.

(5) Servicing transfer (transferring servicer)-when a holder transfers the loan to another servicer.

(6) Servicing transfer (receiving servicer)-when a servicer boards the loan.

(7) Electronic Default Notification (EDN)-when the loan becomes at least 61 days delinquent. The servicer shall report this event no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred. The servicer shall report this event only once per default for delinquent loans in its portfolio.
