
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4317 Servicer reporting requirements.
###### i.e.

(8) Delinquency status-when the servicer notifies VA of any updates to the delinquency information on loans for which an EDN has been submitted. The servicer shall report this event monthly (, no later than the 7th calendar day of the month following the month for which the reported information applies) until the default cures or the loan terminates.

(9) Contact information change-when there is a change to the contact information for current owners or a property or mailing address change.

(10) Occupancy status change-when there is a change in property occupancy status.

(11) Bankruptcy filed-when any owner files a petition under the Bankruptcy Code. The servicer shall report this event no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred. The servicer shall report this event only on delinquent loans in its portfolio, if appropriate, or with the EDN when it is reported.

(12) Bankruptcy update-when a significant event related to the bankruptcy has occurred. The servicer shall report this event no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred. The servicer shall report this event only on delinquent loans in its portfolio, if appropriate, or with the EDN when it is reported.

(13) Loss mitigation letter sent-when the servicer sends the loss mitigation letter to the borrower as required by ยง 36.4350(g)(1)(iv).

(14) Partial payment returned-when the servicer returns a partial payment to the borrower.
