
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4317 Servicer reporting requirements.
###### i.e.

(15) Default cured/loan reinstated-when a previously reported default (, an EDN was filed) has cured/loan reinstated.

(16) Default reported to credit bureau-when the servicer notifies the credit bureaus of a defaulted loan or loan termination. The servicer shall report this event only on delinquent loans in its portfolio, and shall report the first occurrence only.

(17) Repayment plan approved-when the servicer approves a repayment plan.

(18) Special forbearance approved-when the servicer approves a special forbearance agreement.

(19) Loan modification approved-when the servicer approves a loan modification.

(20) Loan modification complete-when both the servicer (and/or the holder, where necessary) and the owner(s) have executed the modification agreement.

(21) Compromise sale complete-when a compromise sale closes.

(22) Deed-in-lieu of foreclosure complete-when the servicer records the deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred.

(23) Foreclosure referral-when the loan is referred to legal counsel for foreclosure. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred.

(24) Foreclosure sale scheduled-when the foreclosure sale is scheduled. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred.

(25) Results of sale-when the foreclosure sale is complete, the servicer reports the results of the foreclosure sale. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from when the event occurred.

(26) Transfer of custody-when the servicer notifies VA of the holder's intent to convey the property. The servicer shall report this no later than the 15th calendar day from the date of liquidation sale (such as the date of foreclosure sale, date of recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or confirmation/ratification of sale date when required under local practice).

(27) Improper transfer of custody-when the servicer discovers that the conveyance of the property to VA was improper. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from when the error is discovered.

(28) Invalid sale results-when the foreclosure sale is invalid. The servicer shall report this no later than the 7th calendar day from discovery of the event that invalidated the sale.

(29) Confirmed sale date with no transfer of custody-when the loan is terminated, the property is not conveyed, and the property is located in a confirmation/ratification of sale state.

(30) Basic claim information-when the servicer files a claim under guaranty. The servicer shall report this event within 365 calendar days of loan termination for non-refund claims, and within 60 calendar days of the refund approval date for refund claims.

(31) Refunding Settlement-when VA refunds a loan and the servicer reports the tax and insurance information. The servicer shall report this event within 60 calendar days of the refund approval date.
