
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4319 Servicer loss-mitigation options and incentives.
###### i.e.

(a) The Secretary will pay a servicer in tiers one, two, or three an incentive payment for each of the following successful loss-mitigation options or alternatives to foreclosure completed: repayment plans, special forbearance agreements, loan modifications, compromise sales, and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure. Only one incentive payment will be made with respect to any default required to be reported to the Secretary pursuant to ยง 36.4317(c). No incentive payment will be made to a servicer in tier four. The options and alternatives are listed in paragraph (b) of this section from top to bottom in their preferred order of consideration (, a hierarchy for review), but VA recognizes that individual circumstances may lead to "out of the ordinary" considerations.

(b) The amount of the incentive payment is as follows:

(c) For purposes of this section, a loss-mitigation option or alternative to foreclosure will be deemed successfully completed as follows:

(1) With respect to a repayment plan (as defined in ยง 36.4301), when the loan reinstates;

(2) With respect to special forbearance (as defined in ยง 36.4301), when the loan reinstates. If a repayment plan is developed at the end of the forbearance period, then the special forbearance is not eligible for an incentive payment, although the subsequent repayment plan may be eligible upon loan reinstatement;

(3) With respect to a loan modification, when the modification is executed and the loan reinstates;

(4) With respect to a compromise sale, when the claim under guaranty is filed; or

(5) With respect to a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, when the claim under guaranty is filed.

(d) Incentive payments with respect to repayment plans, special forbearances and loan modifications shall be made no less frequently than monthly. For all other successful loss-mitigation options, incentives shall be paid in the final claim payment.

(e) The Secretary shall reserve the right to stop an incentive payment to a servicer if the servicer fails to perform adequate servicing.
