
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4323 Election to convey security.
###### i.e.

(b) If the calculation by the holder shows that the net value is equal to or less than the unguaranteed portion of the loan (, the total indebtedness minus VA's maximum claim payable under the guaranty), this would preclude conveyance under 38 U.S.C. 3732(c). However, the holder may desire to convey the property to VA and may decide to waive a portion of the indebtedness to the extent that the property may be conveyed under 38 U.S.C. 3732(c). In such a case, the holder must provide the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, and must subsequently waive that portion of the total indebtedness remaining after application of the net value amount and VA's guaranty claim payment. The holder must send the borrower(s) a notice describing the amount of indebtedness that has been waived no later than 15 calendar days after receipt of the guaranty claim.

(c) The holder, in accounting to the Secretary in connection with the conveyance of any property pursuant to this section, may include as a part of the indebtedness all actual expenses or costs of the proceedings, paid by the holder, within the limits defined in ยง 36.4314. In connection with the conveyance or transfer of property to the Secretary the holder may include in accounting to the Secretary the following expense items if actually paid by the holder, in addition to the consideration payable for the property under 38 U.S.C. 3732(c):

(1) State and documentary stamp taxes as may be required.

(2) Amount expended for taxes, special assessments, including such payments which are specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(3) Recording fees.

(4) Any other expenditures in connection with the property which are approved by the Secretary, including, but not limited to, the cost of a title policy insuring title in the name of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

(d) The conveyance or transfer of any property to the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be subject to the following provisions:

(1) The notice of the holder's election to convey the property to the Secretary shall state the amount of the holder's successful bid and shall state the insurance coverage then in force, specifying for each policy, the name of the insurance company, the hazard covered, the amount, and the expiration date. With respect to a voluntary conveyance to the holder in lieu of foreclosure, the amount of the holder's successful bid shall be deemed to be the lesser of the net value of the property or the total indebtedness.

(2) Coincident with the notice of election to convey or transfer the property to the Secretary or with the acquisition of the property by the holder, following such notice, whichever is later, the holder shall request endorsements on all insurance policies naming the Secretary as an assured, as his/her interest may appear. Such insurance policies shall be forwarded to the Secretary at the time of the conveyance or transfer of the property to the Secretary or as soon after that time as feasible. If insurers cancel policies, holders must properly account for any unearned premiums refunded by the insurer.

(3) Occupancy of the property by anyone properly in possession by virtue of and during a period of redemption, or by anyone else unless under a claim of title which makes the title sought to be conveyed by the holder of less dignity or quality than that required by this section, shall not preclude the holder from conveying or transferring the property to the Secretary. Except with the prior approval of the Secretary, the holder shall not rent the property to a new tenant, nor extend the term of an existing tenancy on other than a month-to-month basis.

(4) The notice shall provide property tax information to include all taxing authority property identification numbers. Any taxes, special assessments or ground rents due and payable within 30 days after date of conveyance or transfer to the Secretary must be paid by the holder.

(5)(i) Each conveyance or transfer of real property to the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be acceptable if:

(A) The holder thereby covenants or warrants against the acts of the holder and those claiming under the holder (e.g., by special warranty deed); and

(B) It vests in the Secretary or will entitle the Secretary to such title as is or would be acceptable to prudent lending institutions, informed buyers, title companies, and attorneys, generally, in the community in which the property is situated.
