
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4323 Election to convey security.
###### Provided,

(ii) Any title will not be unacceptable to the Secretary by reason of any of the limitations on the quantum or quality of the property or title stated in ยง 36.4354(b),that:

(A) At the time of conveyance or transfer to the Secretary there has been no breach of any conditions affording a right to the exercise of any reverter.

(B) With respect to any such limitations which came into existence subsequent to the making of the loan, full compliance was had with the requirements of ยง 36.4327.

(iii) The acceptability of a conveyance or transfer pursuant to the requirements of this paragraph will generally be established by delivery to the Secretary of the following evidence of title showing that title to the property of the quality specified in this paragraph (d)(5) is or will be vested in the Secretary:

(A) A copy of the deed or document evidencing transfer of interest and title at the liquidation sale;

(B) A special warranty deed conveying the property to the Secretary;

(C) Origination Deed of Trust or Mortgage;

(D) Original or Copy of Mortgagee's Title Insurance Policy from Loan Origination (except in Iowa, where a title abstract is required);

(E) Owner's Title Insurance Policy issued after loan termination in the name of the Secretary (except in Iowa, where a title abstract is required);

(F) Loan Assignments;

(G) Appointment of Substitute Trustee (where required as part of the termination process);

(H) Estoppel Affidavit for deed in lieu of foreclosure, if required by State law and appropriate language cannot be included in the deed in lieu of foreclosure; and/or

(I) Any evidence that the Secretary may reasonably require.

(iv) In lieu of such title evidence listed in paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, the Secretary will accept a conveyance or transfer with general warranty with respect to the title from a holder described in 38 U.S.C. 3702(d) or from a holder of financial responsibility satisfactory to the Secretary.

(6) Except with respect to matters covered by any covenants or warranties of the holder, the acceptance by the Secretary of a conveyance or transfer by the holder shall conclude the responsibility of the holder to the Secretary under the regulations of this subpart with respect to the title. In the event of the subsequent discovery of title defects, the Secretary shall have no recourse against the holder with respect to such title other than by reason of such covenants or warranties.

(7) As between the holder and the Secretary, the responsibility for any loss due to damage to or destruction of the property or due to personal injury sustained in respect to such property shall be governed by the provisions of this paragraph and paragraph (d)(11) of this section. Ordinary wear and tear excepted, the holder shall bear such risk of loss from the date of acquisition by the holder to the date such risk of loss is assumed by the Secretary. Such risk of loss is assumed by the Secretary from the date of receipt of the holder's election to convey or transfer the property to the Secretary. The amount of any loss chargeable to the holder may be deducted from the amount payable by the Secretary at the time the property is transferred. In any case where pursuant to the VA regulations rejection of the title is legally proper, the Secretary may surrender custody of the property as of the date specified in the Secretary's notice to the holder. The Secretary's assumption of such risk shall terminate upon such surrender.

(8) The conveyance should be made to "Secretary of Veterans Affairs, an Officer of the United States." The name of the incumbent Secretary should not be included unless State law requires naming a real person.

(9) The holder shall not be liable to the Secretary for any portion of the paid or unpaid taxes, special assessments, ground rents, insurance premiums, or other similar items. The holder shall be liable to the Secretary for all penalties and interest associated with taxes not timely paid by the holder prior to conveyance.

(10) The Secretary shall be entitled to all rentals and other income collected from the property and to any insurance proceeds or refunds subsequent to the date of acquisition by the holder.

(11) In respect to a property which was the security for a condominium loan guaranteed or insured under 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(6) the responsibility for any loss due to damage to or destruction of the property or due to personal injury sustained in respect to such property shall in no event pass to the Secretary until the Secretary expressly assumes such responsibility or until conveyance of the property to the Secretary, whichever first occurs. The holder shall have the right to convey such property to the Secretary only if the property (including elements of the development or project owned in common with other unit owners) is undamaged by fire, earthquake, windstorm, flooding or boiler explosion. The absence of a right in the holder to convey such property which is so damaged shall not preclude a conveyance, if the Secretary agrees in a given case to such a conveyance upon completion of repairs within a specified period of time and such repairs are so completed and the conveyance is otherwise in order.
