
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### § 36.4324 Guaranty claims; subsequent accounting.

(a) Subject to the limitation that the total amounts payable shall in no event exceed the amount originally guaranteed, or in the case of a modified loan, such amount as may have been increased under the provisions of § 36.4315(h)(2), the amount payable on a claim for the guaranty shall be the percentage of the loan originally guaranteed, or the percentage as adjusted under § 36.4315(h)(2), whichever is applicable, applied to the sum of:

(1) The unpaid principal as of the date of the liquidation sale;

(2) Allowable expenses/advances as described in § 36.4314; and

(3) The lesser of:

(i) The unpaid interest as of the date of the liquidation sale; or

(ii) The unpaid interest for the reasonable period that the Secretary has determined, pursuant to § 36.4322(a), it should have taken to complete the foreclosure, plus 210 days from the due date of the last paid installment. This amount will be increased if the Secretary determines the holder was unable to complete the foreclosure within the time specified in this paragraph due to Bankruptcy proceedings, appeal of the foreclosure by the debtor, the holder granting forbearance in excess of 30 days at the request of the Secretary, or other factors beyond the control of the holder.

(b) Deposits or other credits or setoffs legally applicable to the indebtedness shall be applied in reduction of the indebtedness on which the claim is based. Any escrowed or earmarked funds not subject to superior claims of third persons must likewise be so applied.

(c)(1) Credits accruing from the proceeds of a liquidation sale shall be reported to the Secretary incident to claim submission, and the amount payable on the claim shall in no event exceed the remaining balance of the indebtedness.

(2) The amount payable under the guaranty shall be computed applying the formulae in 38 U.S.C. 3732(c). With respect to a voluntary conveyance to the holder in lieu of foreclosure, the holder shall be deemed to have acquired the property at the liquidation sale for the lesser of the net value of the property or the total indebtedness.

(d)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, holders shall file a claim for payment under the guaranty electronically no later than 1 year after the completion of the liquidation sale. For purposes of this section, the liquidation sale will be considered completed when:

(A) The last act required under State law is taken to make the liquidation sale final, but excluding any redemption period permitted under State law;

(B) If a holder accepts a voluntary conveyance of the property in lieu of foreclosure, the date of recordation of the deed to the holder or the holder's designee; or

(C) In the case of a sale of the property to a third party for an amount less than is sufficient to repay the unpaid balance on the loan where the holder has agreed in advance to release the lien in exchange for the proceeds of such sale, the date of settlement of such sale.

(ii) With respect to any liquidation sale completed prior to February 1, 2008, all claims must be submitted no later than February 2, 2009.

(2) If additional information becomes known to a holder after the filing of a guaranty claim, the holder may file a supplemental claim provided that such supplemental claim is filed within the time period specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) No claim under a guaranty shall be payable unless it is submitted within the time period specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(4) A claim shall be submitted to VA electronically on the VA Loan Electronic Reporting Interface system.

(5) Supporting documents will not be submitted with the claim, but must be retained by the servicer and are subject to inspection as provided in § 36.4333 of this title.

(e) In the event that VA does not approve payment of any item submitted under a guaranty claim, VA shall notify the holder electronically what items are being denied and the reasons for such denial. The holder may, within 30 days after the date of such denial notification, submit an electronic request to VA that one or more items that were denied be reconsidered. The holder must present any additional information justifying payment of items denied.
