
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4326 Subrogation and indemnity.

(a) The Secretary shall be subrogated to the contract and the lien or other rights of the holder to the extent of any sum paid on a guaranty or on account of an insured loss, which right shall be junior to the holder's rights as against the debtor or the encumbered property until the holder shall have received the full amount payable under the contract with the debtor. No partial or complete release by a creditor shall impair the rights of the Secretary with respect to the debtor's obligation.

(b) The holder, upon request, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver an appropriate instrument tendered for that purpose, evidencing any payment received from the Secretary and the Secretary's resulting right of subrogation.

(c) The Secretary shall cause the instrument required by paragraph (b) of this section to be filed for record in the office of the recorder of deeds, or other appropriate office of the proper county, town or State, in accordance with the applicable State law. The filing or failure to file such instrument for record shall have the legal results prescribed by the applicable law of the State where the real or personal property is situated, with respect to filing or failure to so file mortgages and other lien instruments and assignments thereof. The references herein to "filing for record" include "registration" or any similar transaction, by whatever name designated when title to the encumbered property has been "registered" pursuant to a Torrens or other similar title registration system provided by law.

(d) As a condition to paying a claim for an insured loss the Secretary may require that the loan, including any security or judgment held therefor, be assigned to the extent of such payment, and if any claim has been filed in bankruptcy, insolvency, probate, or similar proceedings such claim may likewise be required to be so assigned.

(e) Any amounts paid by the Secretary on account of the liabilities of any veteran guaranteed or insured under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 shall constitute a debt owing to the United States by such veteran. Before a liquidation sale, an official authorized to act for the Secretary under provisions of ยง 36.4345 may approve a complete or partial release of the Secretary's right to collect a debt owing to the United States under this paragraph and/or under paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
