
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Methods.

(c)The two primary underwriting standards that will be used in determining the adequacy of the veteran's present and anticipated income are debt-to-income ratio and residual income analysis. They are described in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. Ordinarily, to qualify for a loan, the veteran must meet both standards. Failure to meet one standard, however, will not automatically disqualify a veteran. The following exceptions shall apply to cases where a veteran does not meet both standards:

(1) If the debt-to-income ratio is 41 percent or less, and the veteran does not meet the residual income standard, the loan may be approved with justification, by the underwriter's supervisor, as set out in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(2) If the debt-to-income ratio is greater than 41 percent (unless it is larger due solely to the existence of tax-free income which should be noted in the loan file), the loan may be approved with justification, by the underwriter's supervisor, as set out in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) If the ratio is greater than 41 percent and the residual income exceeds the guidelines by at least 20 percent, the second level review and statement of justification are not required.

(4) In any case described by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, the lender must fully justify the decision to approve the loan or submit the loan to the Secretary for prior approval in writing. The lender's statement must not be perfunctory, but should address the specific compensating factors, as set forth in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, justifying the approval of the loan. The statement must be signed by the underwriter's supervisor. It must be stressed that the statute requires not only consideration of a veteran's present and anticipated income and expenses, but also that the veteran be a satisfactory credit risk. Therefore, meeting both the debt-to-income ratio and residual income standards does not mean that the loan is automatically approved. It is the lender's responsibility to base the loan approval or disapproval on all the factors present for any individual veteran. The veteran's credit must be evaluated based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (g) of this section as well as a variety of compensating factors that should be evaluated.

(5) The following are examples of acceptable compensating factors to be considered in the course of underwriting a loan:

(i) Excellent long-term credit;

(ii) Conservative use of consumer credit;

(iii) Minimal consumer debt;

(iv) Long-term employment;

(v) Significant liquid assets;

(vi) Down payment or the existence of equity in refinancing loans;

(vii) Little or no increase in shelter expense;

(viii) Military benefits;

(ix) Satisfactory homeownership experience;

(x) High residual income;

(xi) Low debt-to-income ratio;

(xii) Tax credits of a continuing nature, such as tax credits for child care; and

(xiii) Tax benefits of home ownership.

(6) The list in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is not exhaustive and the items are not in any priority order. Valid compensating factors should represent unusual strengths rather than mere satisfaction of basic program requirements. Compensating factors must be relevant to the marginality or weakness.
