
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Residual income guidelines.

(e)The guidelines provided in this paragraph for residual income will be used to determine whether the veteran's monthly residual income will be adequate to meet living expenses after estimated monthly shelter expenses have been paid and other monthly obligations have been met. All members of the household must be included in determining if the residual income is sufficient. They must be counted even if the veteran's spouse is not joining in title or on the note, or if there are any other individuals depending on the veteran for support, such as children from a spouse's prior marriage who are not the veteran's legal dependents. It is appropriate, however, to reduce the number of members of a household to be counted for residual income purposes if there is sufficient verified income not otherwise included in the loan analysis, such as child support being regularly received as discussed in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. In the case of a spouse not to be obligated on the note, verification that he/she has stable and reliable employment as discussed in paragraph (f)(3) of this section would allow not counting the spouse in determining the sufficiency of the residual income. The guidelines for residual income are based on data supplied in the Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES) published by the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Regional minimum incomes have been developed for loan amounts up to $79,999 and for loan amounts of $80,000 and above. It is recognized that the purchase price of the property may affect family expenditure levels in individual cases. This factor may be given consideration in the final determination in individual loan analyses. For example, a family purchasing in a higher-priced neighborhood may feel a need to incur higher-than-average expenses to support a lifestyle comparable to that in their environment, whereas a substantially lower-priced home purchase may not compel such expenditures. It should also be clearly understood from this information that no single factor is a final determinant in any applicant's qualification for a VA-guaranteed loan. Once the residual income has been established, other important factors must be examined. One such consideration is the amount being paid currently for rental or housing expenses. If the proposed shelter expense is materially in excess of what is currently being paid, the case may require closer scrutiny. In such cases, consideration should be given to the ability of the borrower and spouse to accumulate liquid assets, such as cash and bonds, and to the amount of debts incurred while paying a lesser amount for shelter. For example, if an application indicates little or no capital reserves and excessive obligations, it may not be reasonable to conclude that a substantial increase in shelter expenses can be absorbed. Another factor of prime importance is the applicant's manner of meeting obligations. A poor credit history alone is a basis for disapproving a loan, as is an obviously inadequate income. When one or the other is marginal, however, the remaining aspect must be closely examined to assure that the loan applied for will not exceed the applicant's ability or capacity to repay. Therefore, it is important to remember that the figures provided below for residual income are to be used as a guide and should be used in conjunction with the steps outlined in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section. The residual income guidelines are as follows:
