
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Verification.

(1)Income of the borrower and spouse which is derived from employment and which is considered in determining the family's ability to meet the mortgage payments, payments on debts and other obligations, and other expenses must be verified. If the spouse is employed and will be contractually obligated on the loan, the combined income of both the veteran and spouse is considered when the income of the veteran alone is not sufficient to qualify for the amount of the loan sought. In other than community property states, if the spouse will not be contractually obligated on the loan, Regulation B (12 CFR part 202), promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board pursuant to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibits any request for, or consideration of, information concerning the spouse (including income, employment, assets, or liabilities), except that if the applicant is relying on alimony, child support, or maintenance payments from a spouse or former spouse as a basis for repayment of the loan, information concerning such spouse or former spouse may be requested and considered (see paragraph (f)(4) of this section). In community property states, information concerning a spouse may be requested and considered in the same manner as that for the applicant. The standards applied to income of the veteran are also applicable to that of the spouse. There can be no discounting of income on account of sex, marital status, or any other basis prohibited by the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Income claimed by an applicant that is not or cannot be verified cannot be considered when analyzing the loan. If the veteran or spouse has been employed by a present employer for less than 2 years, a 2-year history covering prior employment, schooling, or other training must be secured. Any periods of unemployment must be explained. Employment verifications and pay stubs must be no more than 120 days (180 days for new construction) old to be considered valid. For loans closed automatically, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the date of the employment verification is within 120 days (180 days for new construction) of the date the note is signed. For prior approval loans, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the verification of employment is dated within 120 days of the date the application is received by VA.
