
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Active-duty, Reserve, or National Guard applicants.

(2)(i) In the case of an active-duty applicant, a military Leave & Earnings Statement is required and will be used instead of an employment verification. The statement must be no more than 120 days old (180 days for new construction) and must be the original or a lender-certified copy of the original. For loans closed automatically, this requirement is satisfied if the date of the Leave & Earnings Statement is within 120 days (180 days for new construction) of the date the note is signed. For prior approval loans, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the verification of employment is dated within 120 days of the date the application is received by VA.

(ii) For servicemembers within 12 months of release from active duty, or members of the Reserves or National Guard within 12 months of release, one of the following is also required:

(A) Documentation that the servicemember has in fact already reenlisted or extended his/her period of active duty or Reserve or National Guard service to a date beyond the 12-month period following the projected closing of the loan.

(B) Verification of a valid offer of local civilian employment following release from active duty. All data pertinent to sound underwriting procedures (date employment will begin, earnings, etc.) must be included.

(C) A statement from the servicemember that he/she intends to reenlist or extend his/her period of active duty or Reserve or National Guard service to a date beyond the 12 month period following the projected loan closing date, and a statement from the servicemember's commanding officer confirming that the servicemember is eligible to reenlist or extend his/her active duty or Reserve or National Guard service as indicated and that the commanding officer has no reason to believe that such reenlistment or extension will not be granted.

(D) Other unusually strong positive underwriting factors, such as a down payment of at least 10 percent, significant cash reserves, or clear evidence of strong ties to the community coupled with a nonmilitary spouse's income so high that only minimal income from the active duty servicemember or member of the Reserves or National Guard is needed to qualify.

(iii) Each active-duty member who applies for a loan must be counseled through the use of VA Form 26-0592, Counseling Checklist for Military Homebuyers. Lenders must submit a signed and dated VA Form 26-0592 with each prior approval loan application or automatic loan report involving a borrower on active duty.
