
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Income reliability.,i.e.

(3)Income received by the borrower and spouse is to be used only if it can be concluded that the income will continue during the foreseeable future and, thus, should be properly considered in determining ability to meet the mortgage payments. If an employer puts N/A or otherwise declines to complete a verification of employment statement regarding the probability of continued employment, no further action is required of the lender. Reliability will be determined based on the duration of the borrower's current employment together with his or her overall documented employment history. There can be no discounting of income solely because it is derived from an annuity, pension or other retirement benefit, or from part-time employment. However, unless income from overtime work and part-time or second jobs can be accorded a reasonable likelihood that it is continuous and will continue in the foreseeable future, such income should not be used. Generally, the reliability of such income cannot be demonstrated unless the income has continued for 2 years. The hours of duty and other work conditions of the applicant's primary job, and the period of time in which the applicant was employed under such arrangement, must be such as to permit a clear conclusion as to a good probability that overtime or part-time or secondary employment can and will continue. Income from overtime work and part-time jobs not eligible for inclusion as primary income may, if properly verified for at least 12 months, be used to offset the payments due on debts and obligations of an intermediate term,, 6 to 24 months. Such income must be described in the loan file. The amount of any pension or compensation and other income, such as dividends from stocks, interest from bonds, savings accounts, or other deposits, rents, royalties, etc., will be used as primary income if it is reasonable to conclude that such income will continue in the foreseeable future. Otherwise, it may be used only to offset intermediate-term debts, as described in this paragraph. Also, the likely duration of certain military allowances cannot be determined and, therefore, will be used only to offset intermediate-term debts, as described in this paragraph. Such allowances are: Pro-pay, flight or hazard pay, and overseas or combat pay, all of which are subject to periodic review and/or testing of the recipient to ascertain whether eligibility for such pay will continue. Only if it can be shown that such pay has continued for a prolonged period and can be expected to continue because of the nature of the recipient's assigned duties, will such income be considered as primary income. For instance, flight pay verified for a pilot can be regarded as probably continuous and, thus, should be added to the base pay. Income derived from service in the Reserves or National Guard may be used if the applicant has served in such capacity for a period of time sufficient to evidence good probability that such income will continue beyond 12 months. The total period of active and reserve service may be helpful in this regard. Otherwise, such income may be used to offset intermediate-term debts. There are a number of additional income sources whose contingent nature precludes their being considered as available for repayment of a long-term mortgage obligation. Temporary income items such as VA educational allowances and unemployment compensation do not represent stable and reliable income and will not be taken into consideration in determining the ability of the veteran to meet the income requirement of the governing law. As required by the Equal Opportunity Act Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-239, income from public assistance programs is used to qualify for a loan if it can be determined that the income will probably continue for 3 years or more.
