
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Alimony, child support, maintenance, workers' compensation, foster care payments.

(5)(i) If an applicant chooses to reveal income from alimony, child support or maintenance payments (after first having been informed that any such disclosure is voluntary pursuant to the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation B (12 CFR part 202)), such payments are considered as income to the extent that the payments are likely to be consistently made. Factors to be considered in determining the likelihood of consistent payments include, but are not limited to: Whether the payments are received pursuant to a written agreement or court decree; the length of time the payments have been received; the regularity of receipt; the availability of procedures to compel payment; and the creditworthiness of the payor, including the credit history of the payor when available under the Fair Credit Reporting Act or other applicable laws. However, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681(b)) limits the permissible purposes for which credit reports may be ordered, in the absence of written instructions of the consumer to whom the report relates, to business transactions involving the subject of the credit report or extensions of credit to the subject of the credit report.

(ii) If the applicant chooses to reveal income related to workers' compensation, it will be considered as income to the extent it can be determined such income will continue.

(iii) Income received specifically for the care of any foster child(ren) may be counted as income if documented. Generally, however, such foster care income is to be used only to balance the expenses of caring for the foster child(ren) against any increased residual income requirements.
