
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Military quarters allowance.

(6)With respect to off-base housing (quarters) allowances for service personnel on active duty, it is the policy of the Department of Defense to utilize available on-base housing when possible. In order for a quarters allowance to be considered as continuing income, it is necessary that the applicant furnish written authorization from his or her commanding officer for off-base housing. This authorization should verify that quarters will not be made available and that the individual should make permanent arrangements for nonmilitary housing. A Department of Defense form, DD Form 1747, Status of Housing Availability, is used by the Family Housing Office to advise personnel regarding family housing. The applicant's quarters allowance cannot be considered unless item b (Permanent) or d is completed on DD Form 1747, dated October 1990. Of course, if the applicant's income less quarters allowance is sufficient, there is no need for assurance that the applicant has permission to occupy nonmilitary housing provided that a determination can be made that the occupancy requirements of the law will be met. Also, authorization to obtain off-base housing will not be required when certain duty assignments would clearly qualify service personnel with families for quarters allowance. For instance, off-base housing authorizations need not be obtained for service personnel stationed overseas who are not accompanied by their families, recruiters on detached duty, or military personnel stationed in areas where no on-base housing exists. In any case in which no off-base housing authorization is obtained, an explanation of the circumstances justifying its omission must be included with the loan application except when it has been established by the VA facility of jurisdiction that the waiting lists for on-base housing are so long that it is improbable that individuals desiring to purchase off-base housing would be precluded from doing so in the foreseeable future. If stations make such a determination, a release shall be issued to inform lenders.
