
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Commissions.,i.e.

(8)When all or a major portion of the veteran's income is derived from commissions, it will be necessary to establish the stability of such income if it is to be considered in the loan analysis for the repayment of the mortgage debt and/or short-term obligations. In order to assess the value of such income, lenders should obtain written verification of the actual amount of commissions paid to date, the basis for the payment of such commissions and when commissions are paid;, monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually. Lenders should also obtain signed and dated individual income tax returns, plus applicable schedules, for the previous 2 years, or for whatever additional period is deemed necessary to properly demonstrate a satisfactory earnings record. The length of the veteran's employment in the type of occupation for which commissions are paid is also an important factor in the assessment of the stability of the income. If the veteran has been employed for a relatively short time, the income should not normally be considered stable unless the product or service was the same or closely related to the product or service sold in an immediate prior position. Generally, income from commissions is considered stable when the applicant has been receiving such income for at least 2 years. Less than 2 years of income from commissions cannot usually be considered stable. When an applicant has received income from commissions for less than 1 year, it will rarely be possible to demonstrate that the income is stable for qualifying purposes; such cases would require in-depth development.
