
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Self-employment.

(9)Generally, income from self-employment is considered stable when the applicant has been in business for at least 2 years. Less than 2 years of income from self-employment cannot usually be considered stable unless the applicant has had previous related employment and/or extensive specialized training. When an applicant has been self-employed less than 1 year, it will rarely be possible to demonstrate that the income is stable for qualifying purposes; such cases would require in-depth development. The following documentation is required for all self-employed borrowers:

(i) A profit-and-loss statement for the prior fiscal year (12-month accounting cycle), plus the period year to date since the end of the last fiscal year (or for whatever shorter period records may be available), and balance sheet based on the financial records. The financial statement must be sufficient for a loan underwriter to determine the necessary information for loan approval and an independent audit (on the veteran and/or the business) by a Certified Public Accountant will be required if necessary for such determination; and

(ii) Copies of signed individual income tax returns, plus all applicable schedules for the previous 2 years, or for whatever additional period is deemed necessary to properly demonstrate a satisfactory earnings record, must be obtained. If the business is a corporation or partnership, copies of signed Federal business income tax returns for the previous two years plus all applicable schedules for the corporation or partnership must be obtained; and

(iii) If the business is a corporation or partnership, a list of all stockholders or partners showing the interest each holds in the business will be required. Some cases may justify a written credit report on the business as well as the applicant. When the business is of an unusual type and it is difficult to determine the probability of its continued operation, explanation as to the function and purpose of the business may be needed from the applicant and/or any other qualified party with the acknowledged expertise to express a valid opinion.
