
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Recently discharged veterans.

(10)Loan applications received from recently discharged veterans who have little or no employment experience other than their military occupation and from veterans seeking VA-guaranteed loans who have retired after 20 years of active military duty require special attention. The retirement income of the latter veterans in many cases may not be sufficient to meet the statutory income requirements for the loan amount sought. Many have obtained full-time employment and have been employed in their new jobs for a very short time.

(i) It is essential in determining whether veterans in these categories qualify from the income standpoint for the amount of the loan sought, that the facts in respect to their present employment and retirement income be fully developed, and that each case be considered on its individual merits.

(ii) In most cases the veteran's current income or current income plus his or her retirement income is sufficient. The problem lies in determining whether it can be properly concluded that such income level will continue for the foreseeable future. If the veteran's employment status is that of a trainee or an apprentice, this will, of course, be a factor. In cases of the self-employed, the question to be resolved is whether there are reasonable prospects that the business enterprise will be successful and produce the required income. Unless a favorable conclusion can be made, the income from such source should not be considered in the loan analysis.

(iii) If a recently discharged veteran has no prior employment history and the veteran's verification of employment shows he or she has not been on the job a sufficient time in which to become established, consideration should be given to the duties the veteran performed in the military service. When it can be determined that the duties a veteran performed in the service are similar or are in direct relation to the duties of the applicant's present position, such duties may be construed as adding weight to his or her present employment experience and the income from the veteran's present employment thus may be considered available for qualifying the loan, notwithstanding the fact that the applicant has been on the present job only a short time. This same principle may be applied to veterans recently retired from the service. In addition, when the veteran's income from retirement, in relation to the total of the estimated shelter expense, long-term debts and amount available for family support, is such that only minimal income from employment is necessary to qualify from the income standpoint, it would be proper to resolve the doubt in favor of the veteran. It would be erroneous, however, to give consideration to a veteran's income from employment for a short duration in a job requiring skills for which the applicant has had no training or experience.

(iv) To illustrate the provisions of paragraph (f)(10), it would be proper to use short-term employment income in qualifying a veteran who had experience as an airplane mechanic in the military service and the individual's employment after discharge or retirement from the service is in the same or allied fields; e.g., auto mechanic or machinist. This presumes, however, that the verification of employment included a statement that the veteran was performing the duties of the job satisfactorily, the possibility of continued employment was favorable and that the loan application is eligible in all other respects. An example of nonqualifying experience is that of a veteran who was an Air Force pilot and has been employed in insurance sales on commission for a short time. Most cases, of course, fall somewhere between those extremes. It is for this reason that the facts of each case must be fully developed prior to closing the loan automatically or submitting the case to VA for prior approval.
