
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Taxes and other deductions.

(13)Deductions to be applied for Federal income taxes and Social Security may be obtained from the Employer's Tax Guide (Circular E) issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (For veterans receiving a mortgage credit certificate (MCC), see paragraph (f)(14) of this section.) Any State or local taxes should be estimated or obtained from charts similar to those provided by IRS which may be available in those states with withholding taxes. A determination of the amount paid or withheld for retirement purposes should be made and used when calculating deductions from gross income. In determining whether a veteran-applicant meets the income criteria for a loan, some consideration may be given to the potential tax benefits the veteran will realize if the loan is approved. This can be done by using the instructions and worksheet portion of IRS Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, to compute the total number of permissible withholding allowances. That number can then be used when referring to IRS Circular E and any appropriate similar State withholding charts to arrive at the amount of Federal and State income tax to be deducted from gross income.
