
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### i.e.

(ii) Lenders must provide a copy of the MCC to VA with the home loan application. The MCC will specify the rate of credit allowed and the amount of certified indebtedness;, the indebtedness incurred by the veteran to acquire a principal residence or as a qualified home improvement or rehabilitation loan.

(iii) For credit underwriting purposes, the amount of tax credit allowed to a veteran under an MCC will be treated as a reduction in the monthly Federal income tax. For example, a veteran having a $600 monthly interest payment and an MCC providing a 30-percent tax credit would receive a $180 (30 percent x $600) tax credit each month. However, because the annual tax credit, which amounts to $2,160 (12 x $180), exceeds $2,000 and is based on a 30-percent credit rate, the maximum tax credit the veteran can receive is limited to $2,000 per year (Pub. L. 98-369) or $167 per month ($2,000/12). As a consequence of the tax credit, the interest on which a deduction can be taken will be reduced by the amount of the tax credit to $433 ($600-$167). This reduction should also be reflected when calculating Federal income tax.

(iv) For underwriting purposes, the amount of the tax credit is limited to the amount of the veteran's maximum tax liability. If, in the example in paragraph (f)(14)(iii) of this section, the veteran's tax liability for the year were only $1,500, the monthly tax credit would be limited to $125 ($1,500/12).
