
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Bankruptcy.

(2)When the credit information shows that the borrower or spouse has been discharged in bankruptcy under the "straight" liquidation and discharge provisions of the bankruptcy law, this would not in itself disqualify the loan. However, in such cases it is necessary to develop complete information as to the facts and circumstances concerning the bankruptcy. Generally speaking, when the borrower or spouse, as the case may be, has been regularly employed (not self-employed) and has been discharged in bankruptcy within the last one to two years, it probably would not be possible to determine that the borrower or spouse is a satisfactory credit risk unless both of the following requirements are satisfied:

(i) The borrower or spouse has obtained credit subsequent to the bankruptcy and has met the credit payments in a satisfactory manner over a continued period; and

(ii) The bankruptcy was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the borrower or spouse, e.g., unemployment, prolonged strikes, medical bills not covered by insurance. Divorce is not generally viewed as beyond the control of the borrower and/or spouse. The circumstances alleged must be verified. If a borrower or spouse is self-employed, has been adjudicated bankrupt, and subsequently obtains a permanent position, a finding as to satisfactory credit risk may be made provided there is no derogatory credit information prior to self-employment, there is no derogatory credit information subsequent to the bankruptcy, and the failure of the business was not due to misconduct. If a borrower or spouse has been discharged in bankruptcy within the past 12 months, it will not generally be possible to determine that the borrower or spouse is a satisfactory credit risk.
