
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Foreclosures.

(4)(i) When the credit information shows that the veteran or spouse has had a foreclosure on a prior mortgage; e.g., a VA-guaranteed or HUD-insured mortgage, this will not in itself disqualify the borrower from obtaining the loan. Lenders and field station personnel should refer to the preceding guidelines on bankruptcies for cases involving foreclosures. As with a borrower who has been adjudicated bankrupt, it is necessary to develop complete information as to the facts and circumstances of the foreclosure.

(ii) When VA pays a claim on a VA-guaranteed loan as a result of a foreclosure, the original veteran may be required to repay any loss to the Government. In some instances VA may waive the veteran's debt, in part or totally, based on the facts and circumstances of the case. However, guaranty entitlement cannot be restored unless the Government's loss has been repaid in full, regardless of whether or not the debt has been waived, compromised, or discharged in bankruptcy. Therefore, a veteran who is seeking a new VA loan after having experienced a foreclosure on a prior VA loan will in most cases have only remaining entitlement to apply to the new loan. The lender should assure that the veteran has sufficient entitlement for its secondary marketing purposes.
