
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Requirements for verification.

(10)If the credit investigation reveals debts or obligations of a material nature which were not divulged by the applicant, lenders must be certain to obtain clarification as to the status of such debts from the borrower. A proper analysis is obviously not possible unless there is total correlation between the obligations claimed by the borrower and those revealed by a credit report or deposit verification. Conversely, significant debts and obligations reported by the borrower must be dated. If the credit report fails to provide necessary information on such accounts, lenders will be expected to obtain their own verifications of those debts directly from the creditors. Credit reports and verifications must be no more than 120 days old (180 days for new construction) to be considered valid. For loans closed automatically, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the date of the credit report or verification is within 120 days (180 days for new construction) of the date the note is signed. For prior approval loans, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the date of the credit report or verification is within 120 days of the date the application is received by VA. Of major significance are the applicant's rental history and outstanding or recently retired mortgages, if any, particularly prior VA loans. Lenders should be sure ratings on such accounts are obtained; a written explanation is required when ratings are not available. A determination is necessary as to whether alimony and/or child support payments are required. Verification of the amount of such obligations should be obtained, although documentation concerning an applicant's divorce should not be obtained automatically unless it is necessary to verify the amount of any alimony or child support liability indicated by the applicant. If in the routine course of processing the loan application, however, direct evidence is received (e.g., from the credit report) that an obligation to pay alimony or child support exists (as opposed to mere evidence that the veteran was previously divorced), the discrepancy between the loan application and credit report can and should be fully resolved in the same manner as any other such discrepancy would be handled. When a pay stub or leave-and-earnings statement indicates an allotment, the lender must investigate the nature of the allotment(s) to determine whether the allotment is related to a debt. Debts assigned to an ex-spouse by a divorce decree will not generally be charged against a veteran-borrower.
