
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Borrower's personal and financial status.

(h)The number and ages of dependents have an important bearing on whether income after deduction of fixed charges is sufficient to support the family. Type and duration of employment of both the borrower and spouse are important as an indication of stability of their employment. The amount of liquid assets owned by the borrower or spouse, or both, is an important factor in determining that they have sufficient funds to close the loan, as well as being significant in analyzing the overall qualifications for the loan. (It is imperative that adequate cash assets from the veteran's own resources are verified to allow the payment (see ยง 36.4339(a)(3)) of any difference between the sales price of the property and the loan amount, in addition to that necessary to cover closing costs, if the sales price exceeds the reasonable value established by VA.) Verifications must be no more than 120 days old (180 days for new construction) to be considered valid. For loans closed on the automatic basis, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the date of the deposit verification is within 120 days (180 days for new construction) of the date of the veteran's application to the lender. For prior approval loans, this requirement will be considered satisfied if the verification of employment is dated within 120 days of the date the application is received by VA. Current monthly rental or other housing expense is an important consideration when compared to that to be undertaken in connection with the contemplated housing purchase.
