
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Estimated monthly shelter expenses.

(i)It is important that monthly expenses such as taxes, insurance, assessments and maintenance and utilities be estimated accurately based on property location and type of house; e.g., old or new, large or small, rather than using or applying a "rule of thumb" to all properties alike. Maintenance and utility amounts for various types of property should be realistically estimated. Local utility companies should be consulted for current rates. The age and type of construction of a house may well affect these expenses. In the case of condominiums or houses in a planned unit development (PUD), the monthly amount of the maintenance assessment payable to a homeowners association should be added. If the amount currently assessed is less than the maximum provided in the covenants or master deed, and it appears likely that the amount will be insufficient for operation of the condominium or PUD, the amount used will be the maximum the veteran could be charged. If it is expected that real estate taxes will be raised, or if any special assessments are expected, the increased or additional amounts should be used. In special flood hazard areas, include the premium for any required flood insurance.
