
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4340 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility, and lender certification.
###### Lender responsibility.,i.e.

(j)(1) Lenders are fully responsible for developing all credit information;, for obtaining verifications of employment and deposit, credit reports, and for the accuracy of the information contained in the loan application.

(2) Verifications of employment and deposits, and requests for credit reports and/or credit information must be initiated and received by the lender.

(3) In cases where the real estate broker/agent or any other party requests any of this information, the report(s) must be returned directly to the lender. This fact must be disclosed by appropriately completing the required certification on the loan application or report and the parties must be identified as agents of the lender.

(4) Where the lender relies on other parties to secure any of the credit or employment information or otherwise accepts such information obtained by any other party, such parties shall be construed for purposes of the submission of the loan documents to VA to be authorized agents of the lender, regardless of the actual relationship between such parties and the lender, even if disclosure is not provided to VA under paragraph (j)(3) of this section. Any negligent or willful misrepresentation by such parties shall be imputed to the lender as if the lender had processed those documents and the lender shall remain responsible for the quality and accuracy of the information provided to VA.

(5) All credit reports secured by the lender or other parties as identified in paragraphs (j)(3) and (4) of this section shall be provided to VA. If updated credit reports reflect materially different information than that in other reports, such discrepancies must be explained by the lender and the ultimate decision as to the effects of the discrepancy upon the loan application fully addressed by the underwriter.
