
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4345 Delegation of authority.

(a) Except as hereinafter provided, each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs heretofore or hereafter appointed to, or lawfully filling, any position designated in paragraph (b) of this section is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the guaranty or insurance of loans and the rights and liabilities arising therefrom, including but not limited to the adjudication and allowance, disallowance, and compromise of claims; the collection or compromise of amounts due, in money or other property; the extension, rearrangement, or acquisition of loans; the management and disposition of secured and unsecured notes and other property; and those functions expressly or impliedly embraced within paragraphs (2) through (6) of 38 U.S.C. 3720(a). Incidental to the exercise and performance of the powers and functions hereby delegated, each such employee is authorized to execute and deliver (with or without acknowledgment) for, and on behalf of, the Secretary, evidence of guaranty or of insurance credits and such certificates, forms, conveyances, and other instruments as may be appropriate in connection with the acquisition, ownership, management, sale, transfer, assignment, encumbrance, rental, or other disposition of real or personal property, or, of any right, title, or interest therein, including, but not limited to, contracts of sale, installment contracts, deeds, leases, bills of sale, assignments, and releases; and to approve disbursements to be made for any purpose authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37.

(b)(1) Designated positions are as follows:

(i) Under Secretary for Benefits.

(ii) Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Benefits.

(iii) Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service.

(iv) Director, Regional Office.

(v) Deputy Director, Loan Guaranty Service.

(vi) Assistant Director, Loan Guaranty Service.

(vii) Loan Guaranty Officer.

(viii) Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer.

(ix) Realty Officer, Loan Guaranty Service.

(2) The authority hereby delegated to employees of the positions designated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may, with the approval of the Under Secretary for Benefits, be redelegated.

(3) An employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs heretofore or hereafter appointed to, or lawfully filling, the position of Supervisory Realty Specialist is hereby delegated authority to act on behalf the Secretary to execute and deliver necessary and appropriate instruments in connection with the acquisition, ownership, management, sale, transfer, assignment, encumbrance, rental, or other disposition of real or personal property, or any right, title, or interest therein, for any purpose authorized by 38 U.S.C., chapter 37.

(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed-

(1) To authorize any such employee to exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 501 or 3703(a)(2) or to sue, or enter appearance for and on behalf of the Secretary, or confess judgment against the Secretary in any court without the Secretary's prior authorization; or
