
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4345 Delegation of authority.
###### Provided,

(2) To include the authority to exercise those powers delegated to the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, under ยง 36.4323(e), ยง 36.4338 or ยง 36.4346,that, anything in the regulations concerning guaranty or insurance of loans to veterans to the contrary notwithstanding, any evidence of guaranty or insurance issued on or after July 1, 1948, by any of the employees designated in paragraph (b) of this section or by any employee designated an authorized agent or a loan guaranty agent shall be deemed to have been issued by the Secretary, subject to the defenses reserved in 38 U.S.C. 3721.

(d) Each Regional Office, Regional Office and Insurance Center, and Medical and Regional Office Center shall maintain and keep current a cumulative list of all employees of that Office or Center who, since May 1, 1980, have occupied the positions of Director or Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Officer, and Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer. This list will include each employee's name, title, date the employee assumed the position, and the termination date, if applicable, of the employee's tenure in such position. The list shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Regional Office, or Center, during normal business hours.

(e)(1) Authority is hereby delegated to the officers, designated in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, of the entity performing loan servicing functions under a contract with the Secretary to execute on behalf of the Secretary all documents necessary for the servicing and termination of a loan made or acquired by the Secretary pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 (other than under subchapter vi of that chapter). Documents executed under this paragraph include but are not limited to: Loan modification agreements, notices of default and other documents necessary for loan foreclosure or termination, notices of appointment or substitution of trustees under mortgages or deeds of trust, releases or satisfactions of mortgages or deeds of trust, acceptance of deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, loan assumption agreements, loan assignments, deeds tendered upon satisfaction or conversion of an installment land sales contract, and documents related to filing, pursuing and settling claims with insurance companies relating to hazard coverage on properties securing loans being serviced.

(2) The designated officers are:

(i) Vice President;

(ii) Assistant Vice President; and

(iii) Assistant Secretary.

(3) The Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, Washington, DC, shall maintain a log listing all persons authorized to execute documents pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section and the dates such persons held such authority, together with certified copies of resolutions of the board of directors of the entity authorizing such individuals to perform the functions specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. These records shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Office of the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, Washington, DC 20420.

(f)(1) Authority is hereby delegated to the officers, designated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, of the entity performing property management and sales functions under a contract with the Secretary to execute on behalf of the Secretary all documents necessary for the management and sales of residential real property acquired by the Secretary pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 37. Documents executed under this paragraph include but are not limited to: Sales contracts, deeds, documents relating to removing adverse occupants, and any documents relating to sales closings. The authorization to execute deeds is limited to deeds other than general warranty deeds.

(2) The designated officers are:

(i) Senior Vice President;

(ii) Vice President;

(iii) Assistant Vice President;

(iv) Assistant Secretary;

(v) Director;

(vi) Senior Manager; and

(vii) Regional Manager.

(3) The Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, Washington, DC, shall maintain a log listing all persons authorized to execute documents pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section and the dates such persons held such authority, together with certified copies of resolutions of the board of directors of the entity authorizing such individuals to perform the functions specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. These records shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Office of the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, Washington, DC 20420.
