
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4348 Servicer Appraisal Processing Program.
###### Delegation of authority to servicers to review liquidation appraisals and determine reasonable value.

(a)Based on the reasonable value, the servicer will be able to determine net value.

(1) To be eligible for delegation of authority to review VA liquidation appraisals and determine the reasonable value for liquidation purposes on properties secured by VA guaranteed or insured loans, a lender must:

(i) Have automatic processing authority under 38 U.S.C. 3702(d), and

(ii) Employ one or more Staff Appraisal Reviewers (SAR) acceptable to the Secretary.

(2) To qualify as a servicer's staff appraisal reviewer an applicant must be a full-time member of the servicer's permanent staff and may not be employed by, or perform services for, any other mortgagee. The individual must not engage in any private pursuits in which there will be, or appear to be, any conflict of interest between those pursuits and his/her duties, responsibilities, and performance as a Servicer Appraisal Processing Program (SAPP) staff appraisal reviewer. Three years of appraisal related experience is necessary to qualify as a servicer's staff appraisal reviewer. That experience must demonstrate knowledge of, and the ability to apply industry-accepted principles, methods, practices and techniques of appraising, and the ability to competently determine the value of property. The individual must demonstrate the ability to review the work of others and to recognize deviations from accepted appraisal principle, practices, and techniques, error in computations, and unjustifiable and unsupportable conclusions.

(3) Servicers that have a staff appraisal reviewer determined acceptable to VA, will be authorized to review liquidation appraisals and make reasonable value determinations for liquidation purposes on properties that are the security for VA guaranteed or insured loans. Additionally, servicers must satisfy initial VA office case review requirements prior to being allowed to determine reasonable value without VA involvement. The initial office case review requirement must be satisfied in the VA regional loan center in whose jurisdiction the servicer's staff appraisal reviewer is located before the SAPP authority may be utilized by that servicer in any other VA office's jurisdiction. To satisfy the initial office case review requirement, the first five cases of each servicer staff appraisal reviewer involving properties in the regional office location where the staff appraisal reviewer is located will be processed by him or her up to the point where he or she has made a reasonable value determination and fully drafted, but not issued, the servicer's notice of value. At that point, and prior to loan termination, each of the five cases will be submitted to the VA regional loan center having jurisdiction over the property. After a staff review of each case, VA will issue a notice of value which the servicer may use to compute the net value of the property for liquidation purposes. If these five cases are found to be acceptable by VA, the servicer's staff appraisal reviewer will be allowed to fully process subsequent appraisals for properties regardless of jurisdictional location without prior submission to VA and issuance by VA of a notice of value. Where the servicer's reviewer cannot readily meet the jurisdictional review requirement, the SAR applicant may request that VA expand the geographic area of consideration. VA will accommodate such requests if practicable. The initial office case review requirement may be expanded by VA if acceptable performance has not been demonstrated. After satisfaction of the initial office case review requirement, routine reviews of SAPP cases will be made by VA staff based upon quality control procedures established by the Undersecretary for Benefits. Such review will be made on a random sampling or performance related basis.

(4) Certifications required from the servicer will be specified with particularity in the separate instructions issued by the Secretary, as noted in ยง 36.4348(b).
