
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4348 Servicer Appraisal Processing Program.
###### Withdrawal of servicer authority.,i.e.,i.e.

(h)The authority for a servicer to determine reasonable value may be withdrawn by the Loan Guaranty Officer when proper cause exists. A servicer's authority to make reasonable value determinations shall be withdrawn when the servicer no longer meets the basic requirements for delegating the authority, or when it can be shown that the servicer's reasonable value determinations have not been made in accordance with VA regulations, requirements, guidelines, instructions or applicable laws, or when there is adequate evidence to support reasonable belief by VA that a particular unacceptable act, practice, or performance by the servicer or the servicer's staff has occurred. Such acts, practices, or performance include, but are not limited to: Demonstrated technical incompetence (, conduct which demonstrates an insufficient knowledge of industry accepted appraisal principles, techniques and practices; or the lack of technical competence to review appraisal reports and make value determinations in accordance with those requirements); substantive or repetitive errors (, any error(s) of a nature that would materially or significantly affect the determination of reasonable value or condition of the property; or a number or series of errors that, considered individually, may not significantly impact the determination of reasonable value or property condition, but which when considered in the aggregate would establish that appraisal reviews or SAPP case processing are being performed in a careless or negligent manner), or continued instances of disregard for VA requirements after they have been called to the servicer's attention.

(1) Withdrawal of authority by the Loan Guaranty Officer may be either for an indefinite or a specified period of time. For any withdrawal longer than 90 days a reapplication for servicer authority to process appraisals under these regulations will be required. Written notice will be provided at least 30 days in advance of withdrawal unless the Government's interests are exposed to immediate risk from the servicer's activities in which case the withdrawal will be effected immediately. The notice will clearly and specifically set forth the basis and grounds for the action. There is no right to a formal hearing to contest the withdrawal of SAPP processing privileges. However, if within 15 days after receiving notice the servicer requests an opportunity to contest the withdrawal, the servicer may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument to the Loan Guaranty Officer in opposition to the withdrawal. The Loan Guaranty Officer will make a recommendation to the Regional Loan Center Director who shall make the determination as to whether the action should be sustained, modified or rescinded. The servicer will be informed in writing of the decision.

(2) The servicer has the right to appeal the Regional Loan Center Director's decision to the Undersecretary for Benefits. In the event of such an appeal, the Undersecretary for Benefits will review all relevant material concerning the matter and make a determination that shall constitute final agency action. If the servicer's submission of opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the withdrawal of SAPP authority, the servicer will be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses and confront any witness the Veterans Benefits Administration presents. The Undersecretary for Benefits will appoint a hearing officer or panel to conduct the hearing. When such additional proceedings are necessary, the Undersecretary for Benefits shall base the determination on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the servicer.

(3) In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, the Undersecretary for Benefits shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the servicer.

(4) Withdrawal of the SAPP authority will require that VA make subsequent determinations of reasonable value for the servicer. Consequently, VA staff will review each appraisal report and issue a Notice of Value which can then be used by the servicer to compute the net value of properties for liquidation purposes.

(5) Withdrawal by VA of the servicer's SAPP authority does not prevent VA from also withdrawing automatic processing authority or taking debarment or suspension action based upon the same conduct of the servicer.
