
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4352 Authority to close loans on the automatic basis.
###### Underwriter.

(2)A senior officer of the applicant lender must nominate a full-time qualified employee(s) to act in the applicant lender's behalf as underwriter(s) to personally review and make underwriting decisions on VA loans to be closed on the automatic basis.

(i) Nominees for underwriter must have a minimum of three years experience in processing, pre-underwriting or underwriting mortgage loans. At least one recent year of this experience must have included making underwriting decisions on VA loans. (Recent is defined as within the past three years.) A VA nomination and current resume, outlining the underwriter's specific experience with VA loans, must be submitted for each underwriter nominee.

(ii) Alternatively, if an underwriter does not have the experience outlined above, the underwriter must submit documentation verifying that he or she is a current Accredited Residential Underwriter (ARU) as designated by the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA).

(iii) If an underwriter is not located in the lender's corporate office, then a senior officer must certify that the underwriter reports to and is supervised by an individual who is not a branch manager or other person with production responsibilities.

(iv) All VA-approved underwriters must attend a 1-day (eight-hour) training course on underwriter responsibilities, VA underwriting requirements, and VA administrative requirements, including the usage of VA forms, within 90 days of approval (if VA is unable to make such training available within 90 days, the underwriter must attend the first available training). Immediately upon approval of a VA underwriter, the office of jurisdiction will contact the underwriter to schedule this training at a VA regional office (VARO) of the underwriter's choice. This training is required for all newly approved VA underwriters, including those who qualified for approval based on an ARU designation, as well as VA-approved underwriters who have not underwritten VA-guaranteed loans in the past 24 months. Furthermore, and at the discretion of any VARO in whose jurisdiction the lender is originating VA loans, VA-approved underwriters who consistently approve loans that do not meet VA credit standards may be required to retake this training.
