
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4352 Authority to close loans on the automatic basis.
###### Net worth.

(ii)Lenders must show evidence of a minimum of $ 250,000 in adjusted net worth. Net worth is a measure of an applicant lender's solvency, or its ability to exist in the long run, quantified by the payment of long-term debts. Net worth as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is total assets minus total liabilities. Adjusted net worth for VA purposes is the same as the adjusted net worth required by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), net worth less certain unacceptable assets including:

(A) Any assets of the lender pledged to secure obligations of another person or entity.

(B) Any asset due from either officers or stockholders of the lender or related entities, in which the lender's officers or stockholders have a personal interest, unrelated to their position as an officer or stockholder.

(C) Any investment in related entities in which the lender's officers or stockholders have a personal interest unrelated to their position as an officer or stockholder.

(D) That portion of an investment in joint ventures, subsidiaries, affiliates and/or other related entities which is carried at a value greater than equity, as adjusted. "Equity as adjusted" means the book value of the related entity reduced by the amount of unacceptable assets carried by the related entity.

(E) All intangibles, such as goodwill, covenants not to compete, franchisee fees, organization costs, etc., except unamortized servicing costs carried at a value established by an arm's-length transaction and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(F) That portion of an asset not readily marketable and for which appraised values are very subjective, carried at a value in excess of a substantially discounted appraised value. Assets such as antiques, art work and gemstones are subject to this provision and should be carried at the lower of cost or market.

(G) Any asset that is principally used for the personal enjoyment of an officer or stockholder and not for normal business purposes. Adjusted net worth must be calculated by a CPA using an audited and certified balance sheet from the lender's latest financial statements. "Personal interest" as used in this section indicates a relationship between the lender and a person or entity in which that specified person (e.g., spouse, parent, grandparent, child, brother, sister, aunt, uncle or in-law) has a financial interest in or is employed in a management position by the lender.
