
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4352 Authority to close loans on the automatic basis.
###### Use of agents.

(13)A lender using an agent to perform a portion of the work involved in originating and closing a VA-guaranteed loan on an automatic basis must take full responsibility by certification for all acts, errors and omissions of the agent or other entity and its employees for the work performed. Any such acts, errors or omissions will be treated as those of the lender and appropriate sanctions may be imposed against the lender and its agent. Lenders requesting an agent must submit the following documentation to the VA regional office having jurisdiction for the lender's corporate office:

(i) A corporate resolution certifying that the lender takes full responsibility for all acts, errors and omissions of the agent that it is requesting. The corporate resolution must also identify the agent's name and address, and the geographic area in which the agent will be originating and/or closing VA loans; whether the agent is authorized to issue interest rate lock-in agreements on behalf of the lender; and outline the functions the agent is to perform. Alternatively, the lender may submit a blanket corporate resolution which sets forth the functions of any and all agents and identifies individual agents by name, address, and geographic area in separate letters which refer to the blanket resolution.

(ii) When the VA regional office having jurisdiction for the lender's corporate office acknowledges receipt of the lender's request in writing, the agent is thereby authorized to originate VA loans on the lender's behalf.
