
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4361 Acceptable ownership arrangements and documentation.
###### Developmental plan-proposed condominiums.

(2)The declaration or other legally enforceable and binding document must state in a reasonable manner the overall development plan of the condominium, including building types, architectural style and the size of the units for those phases of the condominium which are required to be built. Under the applicable provisions of the declaration or such other legally enforceable and binding document, the development of the required portion of the condominium must be consistent with the overall plan, except that the declarant may reserve the right to change the overall plan or decide not to construct planned units or improvements to the common elements if the declaration sets forth the conditions required to be satisfied prior to the exercise of that right the time within which the right may be exercised, and any other limitations and criteria that would be necessary or appropriate under the particular circumstances. Such conditions, time restraints and other limitations must be reasonable in light of the overall plan for the condominium. In an expandable project, additional phases which are not required to be built may be described in the development plan in very general terms, or the declaration may provide that the declarant makes no assurances concerning the construction, building types, architectural style and size of the units, etc. of these phases. However, the minimum number of units to be built should be that which would be adequate to reasonably support the common elements. (See ยง 36.4364(a)(6).)
