
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4365 Appraisal requirements.
###### Information brochure/public offering statement.

(5)When units are being sold by the declarant (not applicable to resales), an information brochure/public offering statement must be given to veteran buyers prior to the time a down payment is received and an agreement is signed, unless State law authorized receipt of the down payment and delivery of the information brochure followed by a period in which purchasers may cancel the purchase agreement without penalty for a specified number of days. Information brochures must be written in simple terms to inform buyers that the association does not provide owner's contents and personal liability policies which are the owner's responsibility. In the event the development is expandable, series, etc., there must be full disclosure of the impact of the total development plan. In expandable, series or other projects with more than one phase, the information brochure must disclose fully later development rights, and the general plans of the declarant for additional phases. If the declarant makes no assurance concerning phases which are not required to be built, the declarant should state that no assurances are given concerning construction, unit sizes, building types, architectural styles, etc. In condominium conversions, the information brochure must list the major structural and mechanical components and the estimated remaining useful life of the components. A brief explanation must be furnished in the brochure explaining that certain major structural or mechanical components may require replacement within a specified time period. If the declarant has elected to place funds into a condominium reserve fund for replacement of a major component under the provisions of ยง 36.4365(b)(7), the amount of the contribution into the reserve fund must be specified in the information brochure.
