
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4365 Appraisal requirements.
###### Additional condominium conversion requirements.

(7)(i) The declarant of any condominium project must furnish structural and mechanical common element component statements on the present condition of all accessible structural and mechanical components material to the use and enjoyment of the condominium. These statements must be completed by a registered professional engineer and/or architect prior to the guaranty of the first unit loan in the project. Each statement must also give an estimate of the expected useful life of the roof, elevators, heating and cooling, plumbing and electrical systems assuming normal maintenance. A minimum of 10 years estimated remaining useful life is required on all structural and mechanical components. In the alternative, the declarant may contribute an amount of funds to the condominium reserve fund equal to a minimum of(one-tenth) of the estimated costs of replacement of a major structural or mechanical component (as determined by an independent registered professional architect or engineer) for each year of estimated remaining useful life less than 10 years, e.g. 7 years remaining useful life equals arequired declarant contribution to the reserve fund of the component's estimated replacement cost. The noted statements and remaining useful life requirement are not applicable to existing resale conversion projects when the declarant is no longer marketing units and/or in control of the association. Expandable or series condominium conversions require engineering and architectural statements on each stage or phase.

(ii) In declarant controlled projects, a statement(s) by the local authority(ies) of the adequacy of offsite utilities servicing the site (e.g., sanitary or water) is required. If a local authority(ies) declines to issue such a statement(s), a statement(s) may be obtained from a registered professional engineer. If local authority(ies) declines to issue such a statement(s), a statement(s) may be obtained from a registered professional engineer.
