
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4365 Appraisal requirements.
###### Warranty.

(d)Except in condominium conversion projects, each CRV (Certificate of Reasonable Value) issued by the Secretary relating to a proposed or existing not previously occupied dwelling unit in a condominium project shall be subject to the express condition that the builder, seller, or the real party in interest in the transaction shall deliver to the veteran purchasing the dwelling unit with the aid of a guaranteed or insured loan a warranty against defects for the unit and common elements. The unit shall be warranted for 1 year from the date of settlement or the date of occupancy (whichever first occurs). The common elements shall be warranted for 2 years from the date each of the common elements is completed and available for use by the unit owners, or 2 years from the date the first unit is conveyed to a unit owner other than the declarant, whichever is later, in the particular phase of the condominium containing the common element. For these purposes, defects shall be those items reasonably requiring the repair, renovation, restoration, or replacement of any of the components constituting the unit or common elements. Items of maintenance relating to the unit or common elements are not covered by the warranty. No certificate of guaranty or insurance credit shall be issued unless a copy of such warranty, duly receipted by the purchaser, is submitted with the loan papers.
