
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### ยง 36.4365 Appraisal requirements.
###### Mandatory membership.

(2)The declaration of the condominium (each condominium in a series development) and the legal documentation of the corporation or association which owns the offsite facility must provide the following:

(i) The owner of a condominium unit is automatically a member of the offsite facility corporation or association and that upon the sale of the unit, membership is transferred automatically to the new owner/purchaser. It is also acceptable if each condominium owners' association (in lieu of each individual unit owner) is automatically a member of the offsite facility corporation or association coupled with use rights for each of the unit owners or residents. If membership in an offsite owners' association is voluntary, no credit in the CRV valuation may be given for such offsite amenities.

(ii) Each member of the offsite facility corporation or association must be entitled to a representative vote at meetings of the offsite facility corporation or association. If the individual condominium owners' association is a member of the offsite facility corporation or association, each condominium owners' association must be entitled to a representative vote at meetings of the offsite facility corporation or association.

(iii) Each member must agree by acceptance of the unit deed to pay a share of the expenses of the offsite facility corporation or association as assessed by the corporation or association for upkeep, insurance, reserve fund for replacements, maintenance and operation of the offsite facility. The share of said expenses shall be determined equitably. Failure to pay such assessment must result in a lien against the individual unit in the same manner as unpaid assessments by the association of owners of the condominium. If each condominium owners' association is a member of the offsite facility in lieu of individual unit owners, failure of the condominium owners' association to pay its equitable assessment to the offsite facility must result in an enforceable lien.
