
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart B - Guaranty or Insurance of Loans to Veterans With Electronic Reporting
##### § 36.4393 Complaint and hearing procedure.

(a) Upon receipt of a written complaint signed by the complainant to the effect that any person, firm or entity has violated the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, such person, firm or other entity shall be invited to discuss the matter in an informal hearing with the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs regional office or center.

(b) If the existence of a violation is denied by the person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been made, the Director or designee shall conduct such inquiries and hearings as may be deemed appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining the facts.

(c) If it is found that the person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been made has not violated the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, the parties shall be so notified.

(d) If it is found that there has been a violation of the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, the person, firm or other entity in violation shall be requested to attend a conference for the purpose of discussing the matter. Failure or refusal to attend such a conference shall be proper basis for the application of sanctions.

(e) The conference arranged for discussing a violation shall be conducted in an informal manner and shall have as its primary objective the elimination of the violation. If the violation is eliminated and satisfactory assurances are received that the person, firm or other entity in violation will comply with the undertakings pursuant to § 36.4392 in the future, the parties concerned shall be so notified.

(f) Failure or refusal to comply and give satisfactory assurances of future compliance with the equal employment opportunity requirements shall be proper basis for applying sanctions. The sanctions shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 11246 as amended and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor.

(g) Upon written application, a complainant or a person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been filed may apply to the Under Secretary for Benefits for a review of the action taken by a Director. Upon receiving such application, the Under Secretary for Benefits may designate a representative or representatives to conduct an informal hearing and to make a report of findings. The Under Secretary for Benefits may, after a review of such report, modify or reverse an action taken by a Director.

(h) Reinstatement of restricted persons, firms or other entities shall be within the discretion of the Under Secretary for Benefits and under such terms as the Under Secretary for Benefits may prescribe.
