
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart D - Direct Loans
##### ยง 36.4514 Eligibility requirements.

Prior to making a loan, or a commitment therefor, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall determine that:

(a) The applicant is an eligible veteran.

(b) The applicant has full capacity under local law to enter into binding contracts.

(c) The applicant is a satisfactory credit risk and has the ability to repay the obligation proposed to be incurred and that the proposed payments on such obligation bear a proper relationship to present and anticipated income and expenses as determined by use of the credit standards in ยง 36.4337 of this part.

(d) Private capital is not available in the area at an interest rate not in excess of the rate authorized for guaranteed home loans for a loan for which the veteran is qualified under 38 U.S.C. 3710.

(e) The applicant is unable to obtain a loan for such purpose from the Secretary of Agriculture, under the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, as amended, or under the Housing Act of 1949.

(f) In respect to a loan application received on or after September 15, 1956, there has been compliance by the applicant with the certification requirements prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 3704(c).

(g) The applicant has certified, in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe, that

(1) Neither the applicant nor anyone authorized to act for the applicant, will refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bonafide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the dwelling or property covered by this loan to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;

(2) The applicant recognizes that any restrictive covenant on the property relating to race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin is illegal and void and any such covenant is specifically disclaimed; and

(3) The applicant understands that civil action for preventive relief may be brought by the Attorney General of the United States in any appropriate U.S. District Court against any person responsible for a violation of the applicable law.
