
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart E - Sale of Loans, Guarantee of Payment, and Flood Insurance
##### ยง 36.4600 Sale of loans, guarantee of payment.

(a) Whenever loans are sold by the Department of Veterans Affairs, they will be clearly identified as loans sold with or without recourse.

(b) The payment of all loans sold with recourse shall be guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(c) Wherever the term "holder" appears in this section it shall mean the purchaser of a loan sold by the Secretary and any subsequent transferee or assignee of such loan. The holder of each loan sold subject to guaranty shall be deemed to have agreed with the Secretary as follows:

(1) To furnish the Secretary with notice of default within 60 days after a loan has become two full installments in default.

(2) To maintain on the real estate a lien of the dignity assigned or transferred to the purchaser by the Secretary.

(3) To maintain insurance in an amount sufficient to protect the security against risks or hazards to which it may be subjected to the extent customary in the locality, and to apply the proceeds of loss payments to the loan balance or the restoration of the security, as the holder may in the holder's discretion deem proper. Flood insurance will be required on any building or personal property securing a loan at any time during the term of the loan that such security is located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The amount of flood insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The notice requirements of 38 CFR 36.4709 shall apply to loans sold pursuant to this section.

(4) To obtain a consideration equal to the fair market value of any real estate released from the first lien securing the loan, except where the loan will be paid in full, and to apply the entire consideration in reduction of the principal balance of the loan.

(5) To maintain the tax and insurance account as provided for in the loan instruments and to pay accrued taxes, special assessments, ground or water rents and premiums on fire or other insurance properly chargeable to the tax and insurance account.

(6) To submit to the Secretary notice of any suit or action or other legal or equitable proceeding to which the holder is a party (including a copy of every procedural paper filed on behalf of the holder or served on the holder), brought on or in connection with a loan sold under this section or involving title to, or other lien on, the property securing the loan, within the time that would be required if the Secretary were a party to the proceeding.

(7) To submit to the Secretary for prior approval any proposal to recast or extend the repayment terms of the loan.

(8) To take no action to accelerate the indebtedness or terminate the debtor's interest in the property without the prior approval of the Secretary.

(9) To make advances only for the maintenance and repairs reasonably necessary for the preservation of the security, or for the payment of accrued taxes, special assessments, ground or water rents, premiums on fire or other insurance against loss or damage to the property, or for other purposes approved in advance by the Secretary.

(10) To furnish the Secretary prompt notice of the cancellation of any repurchase endorsement or notice on the note or bond upon the payment in full of any loan sold pursuant to this section or of the release of the Secretary from liability to repurchase the loan.

(11) To maintain adequate accounting records and to provide the Secretary with such data relating to the loan as the Secretary may request incident to the Secretary's determination of the amount payable in connection with a request for the repurchase of the loan.

(12) To service the loans properly in accordance with established practices.

(13) To permit the Secretary to inspect, examine or audit at reasonable times and places the records of loans which are subject to repurchase under this section.

(14) To sell any loan to the Secretary for the amount specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon request of the Secretary if the loan is six (6) full installments or more in default.

(15) To dispose of partial payments in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. A partial payment is a remittance on a loan in default of any amount less than the full amount due under the terms of the loan and security instruments at the time the remittance is tendered; a default is a failure of a borrower to comply with the terms of a loan agreement.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(15)(ii) of this section, or upon the express waiver of the Secretary, the mortgage holder shall accept any partial payment and either apply it to the mortgagor's account or identify it with the mortgagor's account and hold it in a special account pending disposition. When partial payments held for disposition aggregate a full monthly installment, including escrow, they shall be applied to the mortgagor's account.

(ii) A partial payment may be returned to the mortgagor, within 10 calendar days from date of receipt of such payment, with a letter of explanation only if one or more of the following conditions exist:
