
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 36 - LOAN GUARANTY
#### Subpart F - COVID-19 Recovery Measures
##### ยง 36.4805 Terms of the partial claim payment.
###### i.e.,

(7) If the servicer miscalculates the partial claim amount, resulting in underpayment (an amount insufficient to bring the guaranteed loan current), the servicer must waive the difference.

(8) Servicers shall not include any amounts for a monthly payment that is scheduled to be paid on a date that is more than 31 days after the servicer provides to the veteran the note and security instrument described in ยง 36.4806.

(f) The servicer must prepare a note and security instrument in favor of the "Secretary of Veterans Affairs, an Officer of the United States". The name of the incumbent Secretary should not be included unless State law requires naming a real person.

(1) The note must be consistent with the terms described in ยง 36.4806 and include all borrowers who are obligated on the guaranteed loan; and

(2) The security instrument must include all persons (borrowers, as well as non-borrowers) who hold a title interest in the property securing the guaranteed loan.

(g) Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, all loan documents must be fully executed not later than 90 days after the veteran exits the COVID-19 forbearance.

(h) The servicer must record the security instrument timely, as prescribed in ยง 36.4807.

(i) The servicer must not charge, or allow to be charged, to the veteran any fee in connection with the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
