
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 38 - NATIONAL CEMETERIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
#### ยง 38.619 Requests for interment, committal services or memorial services, and funeral honors.
##### Required information.

(1)VA will request the following information from the decedent's personal representative at the time of the request for interment to allow VA to schedule the interment for the decedent:

(i) Documentation of the decedent's eligibility for national cemetery interment. If needed, VA will make reasonable efforts to assist the personal representative in obtaining such documentation;

(ii) Preferred date and time for the interment;

(iii) Whether a committal service is requested (a committal service is not required);

(iv) Whether the remains are in a casket or urn. For cremated remains, the personal representative will be advised to present a certificate of cremation or other documentation sufficient to identify the decedent at the time of interment.

(v) The size of the casket or urn.

(vi) The contact information for the personal representative.

(vii) Whether a private vault will be provided to the national cemetery or a government-furnished grave liner is required.

(viii) Whether the personal representative intends to have funeral honors during the committal service, if the decedent is a veteran.

(ix) Other relevant information necessary to establish or confirm eligibility of the decedent and/or for cemetery logistics and planning.

(2) [Reserved].
