
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 38 - NATIONAL CEMETERIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
#### ยง 38.621 Disinterments.

(a) Interments of eligible decedents in national cemeteries are considered permanent and final. Disinterment will be permitted only for cogent reasons and with the prior written authorization of the National Cemetery District Executive Director or Cemetery Director responsible for the cemetery involved. Disinterment from a national cemetery will be approved only when:

(1) A court order or State instrumentality of competent jurisdiction directs the disinterment; or

(2) All living immediate family members of the decedent, and the individual who initiated the interment (whether or not the individual is a member of the immediate family), give their written consent.

(i) If the individual who initiated the interment does not consent, or is not alive to provide consent, or all living immediate family members are not in agreement, anyone seeking disinterment of an eligible decedent must provide VA with an order from a court or State instrumentality of competent jurisdiction to direct the disinterment as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) For purposes of this section, "immediate family members" are defined as surviving spouse, whether or not he or she is or was remarried; all adult children of the decedent; the appointed guardian(s) of minor children; and the appointed guardian(s) of the surviving spouse or of the adult child(ren) of the decedent. If the surviving spouse and all of the children of the decedent are deceased, the decedent's parents will be considered "immediate family members."

(b)(1) All requests to disinter remains as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be submitted on VA Form 40-4970, Request for Disinterment, and must include the following information:

(i) A full statement of reasons for the proposed disinterment.

(ii) Notarized statement(s) by all living immediate family members of the decedent, and by the person who initiated the interment (whether or not the individual is a member of the immediate family), that all parties consent to the proposed disinterment.

(iii) A notarized statement by the person requesting the disinterment that those who supplied affidavits comprise all the living immediate family members of the deceased and the individual who initiated the interment.

(2) If the person provides a false certification on VA Form 40-4970, he or she may be subject to penalties, to include fine or imprisonment or both.

(c) Any VA-approved disinterment in this section must be accomplished without expense to the Government.
