
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 3 - ADJUDICATION
#### Subpart A - Pension, Compensation, and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation
##### General
###### ยง 3.31 Commencement of the period of payment.
####### Specific exclusions.

(c)The provisions of this section do not apply to the following types of awards.

(1) Surviving spouse's rate for the month of a veteran's death (for exception see ยง 3.20(b))

(2) In cases where military retired or retirement pay is greater than the amount of compensation payable, compensation will be paid as of the effective date of waiver of such pay. However, in cases where the amount of compensation payable is greater than military retired or retirement pay, payment of the available difference for any period prior to the effective date of total waiver of such pay is subject to the general provisions of this section.

(3) Adjustments of awards-such as in the case of original or increased apportionments or the termination of any withholding, reduction, or suspension by reason of:

(i) Recoupment,

(ii) An offset to collect indebtedness,

(iii) Institutionalization (hospitalization),

(iv) Incompetency,

(v) Incarceration,

(vi) An estate that exceeds the limitation for certain hospitalized incompetent veterans, or

(vii) Discontinuance of apportionments.

(4) Increases resulting solely from the enactment of legislation-such as

(i) Cost-of-living increases in compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation,

(ii) Increases in Improved Pension, parents' dependency and indemnity compensation, or a monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 pursuant to ยง 3.27, or

(iii) Changes in the criteria for statutory award designations.

(5) Temporary total ratings pursuant to paragraph 29 of the Schedule for Rating Disabilities when the entire period of hospitalization or treatment, including any period of post-hospitalization convalescence, commences and terminates within the same calendar month. In such cases the period of payment shall commence on the first day of the month in which the hospitalization or treatment began.
