
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 39 - AID FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION, AND IMPROVEMENT, OR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, OF VETERANS CEMETERIES
#### Subpart B - Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects
##### Grant Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 39.31 Preapplication requirements.
####### i.e.,

(3) If a site has been selected, a description of the geographic location of the project (a map showing the location of the project and all appropriate geographic boundaries, and any other supporting documentation, as needed).

(4) A design concept describing the major features of the project including the number and types of gravesites, such as columbarium niches.

(5) Any comments or recommendations made by the State's or Tribal Organization's "Single Point of Contact" reviewing agency.

(6) VA Form 40-0895-2 (Certification of Compliance with Provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act) to certify that the State or Tribal Organization has obtained the latest prevailing wage rates for Federally funded projects. Any construction project fully or partially funded with Federal dollars must comply with those rates for specific work by trade employees (e.g., electricians, carpenters).

(7) VA Form 40-0895-3 (State or Tribal Government Cemetery Grants Service Space Program Analysis-Buildings) to provide information on the proposed size of cemetery buildings, based on VA guidance on the net and gross square footage standards for cemetery buildings. This standard is based on a workload of 1-6 burials per day.

(8) VA Form 40-0895-6 (Certification of State or Tribal Government Matching Architectural and Engineering Funds to Qualify for Group 1 on the Priority List) to provide documentation that the State or Tribal Organization has authority to support the project and the resources necessary to initially fund the architectural and engineering portion of the project development. Once the grant is awarded, VA will reimburse the applicant for all allowable architectural and engineering costs.

(9) VA Form 40-0895-7 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions (State or Tribal Government)) to ensure that the applicant has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.

(10) VA Form 40-0895-8 (Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements for Grantees Other Than Individuals) to ensure that the applicant complies with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 at the location where the construction will occur.

(11) VA Form 40-0895-9 (Certification Regarding Lobbying) to ensure that the applicant complies with Public Law 101-121 regarding the prohibition against any payments to anyone that influences or attempts to influence an officer or Member of Congress in connection with the award of a grant.

(12) VA Form 40-0895-10 (Certification of Compliance with Federal Requirements-State or Tribal Government Construction Grant) to ensure that the applicant complies with all requirements of part 39.

(13) VA Form 40-0895-15 (Certification of Cemetery Maintained in Accordance with National Cemetery Administration Standards) to ensure that any cemetery established, expanded, or improved through a grant will be operated and maintained in accordance with the operational standards of NCA.

(c) In addition, the State or Tribal Organization must submit written assurance of each of the following conditions:
