
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 39 - AID FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION, AND IMPROVEMENT, OR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, OF VETERANS CEMETERIES
#### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Projects
##### Grant Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 39.81 Preapplication requirements.
####### http://www.cem.va.gov/cem/scg_grants.asp.

(a) A State or Tribal Organization seeking a grant for the operation or maintenance of a State or Tribal veterans cemetery must submit a preapplication to the Director, Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, through

(b) No detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are required with the preapplication. As a part of the preapplication, the State or Tribal Organization must submit each of the following:

(1) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) and Standard Form 424C (Budget Information) signed by the authorized representative of the State or Tribal Organization. These forms document the amount of the grant requested, which may not exceed 100 percent of the estimated cost of the project to be funded with the grant.

(2) VA Form 40-0895-2 (Certification of Compliance with Provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act) to certify that the State or Tribal Organization has obtained the latest prevailing wage rates for Federally funded projects. Any construction project fully or partially funded with Federal dollars must comply with those rates for specific work by trade employees (e.g., electricians, carpenters).

(3) VA Form 40-0895-6 (Certification of State or Tribal Government Matching Architectural and Engineering Funds to Qualify for Group 1 on the Priority List) to provide documentation that the State or Tribal Organization has legal authority to support the project and the resources necessary to initially fund the architectural and engineering portion of the project development. Once the grant is awarded, VA will reimburse the applicant for all allowable architectural and engineering costs.

(4) VA Form 40-0895-7 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions (State or Tribal Government)) to ensure that the applicant has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.

(5) VA Form 40-0895-8 (Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements for Grantees Other Than Individuals) to ensure that the applicant complies with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 at the location where the construction will occur.

(6) VA Form 40-0895-9 (Certification Regarding Lobbying) to ensure that the applicant complies with Public Law 101-121 regarding the prohibition against any payments to anyone that influences or attempts to influence an officer or Member of Congress in connection with the award of a grant.

(7) VA Form 40-0895-10 (Certification of Compliance with Federal Requirements-State or Tribal Government Construction Grant) to ensure that the applicant complies with all requirements of part 39.

(8) VA Form 40-0895-15 (Certification of Cemetery Maintained in Accordance with National Cemetery Administration Standards) to ensure that any cemetery operated or maintained through a grant will be operated and maintained in accordance with VA's national shrine standards of appearance.

(9) A gravesite assessment survey documenting the State or Tribal cemetery's performance related to the standards outlined in paragraph (b)(10) of this section for the year in which the preapplication is submitted.

(10) A program narrative describing how the project will assist the State or Tribal Organization in meeting VA's national shrine standards with respect to cleanliness, height and alignment of headstones and markers, leveling of gravesites, or turf conditions. Specifically, the preapplication should explain the need for the grant, how the work is to be accomplished, and the expected improvement in the State or Tribal cemetery's performance related to one or more of the following national shrine standards:
