
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 39 - AID FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION, AND IMPROVEMENT, OR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, OF VETERANS CEMETERIES
#### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Projects
##### Grant Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 39.81 Preapplication requirements.
####### Turf conditions.

(v)100 percent of visually prominent areas must have a well-established, healthy stand of turf that is generally weed free; 95 percent of visually prominent areas with established turf must be generally free of bare areas.

(11) A description of the geographic location of the existing State or Tribal veteran cemetery and any other supporting documentation, as requested by the VCGS Director.

(12) A description of the project including the number and types of headstones and markers that need to be cleaned and aligned, a description of the gravesites that need to be leveled, and a description of the turf conditions that need to be improved to meet VA's national shrine standards.

(c) In addition, the State or Tribal Organization must submit written assurance of each of the following conditions:

(1) Any cemetery in receipt of a grant under this subpart will be used exclusively for the interment or memorialization of eligible persons, as set forth in ยง 39.10(a), whose interment or memorialization is not contrary to the conditions of the grant (see ยง 39.10(b) and 38 U.S.C. 2408(d) and 2411).

(2) Title to the site is or will be vested solely in the State or held in trust for the Tribal Organization on trust land.

(3) The State or Tribal Organization possesses legal authority to apply for the grant.

(4) The State or Tribal Organization will obtain approval by VA of the final specifications before the project is advertised or placed on the market for bidding; the project will achieve VA's national shrine standards with respect to cleanliness, height and alignment of headstones and markers, leveling of gravesites, or turf conditions in accordance with the application and approved plans and specifications; the State or Tribal Organization will submit to the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, for prior approval, changes that alter any cost of the project; and the State or Tribal Organization will not enter into a contract for the project or undertake other activities until all the requirements of the grant program have been met.

(d) Depending on the scope of the project, the VCGS will work with the State or Tribal Organization to determine which, if any, of the following are required:
