
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 39 - AID FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION, AND IMPROVEMENT, OR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, OF VETERANS CEMETERIES
#### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Projects
##### Grant Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 39.81 Preapplication requirements.
####### et seq.

(1) Compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), Executive Order 11593 (identification and protection of historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1).

(2) Compliance with the Federal requirements in 2 CFR parts 180, 200, and 801 and submission of Standard Form 424D (Assurances-Construction Programs).

(3) A site Environmental Assessment to determine whether an Environmental Impact Statement will be necessary as a result of the work to be performed on the headstones and markers, gravesites, or turf conditions.

(e) Upon receipt of a complete preapplication for a grant, including all necessary assurances and all required supporting documentation, VA will determine whether the preapplication conforms to all requirements listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, including whether it contains sufficient information necessary to establish the project's priority. VA will notify the State or Tribal Organization of any nonconformity. If the preapplication does conform, VA shall notify the State or Tribal Organization that the preapplication has been found to meet the preapplication requirements, and the proposed project will be included in the next scheduled ranking of projects, as indicated in ยง 39.3(d).
