
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 42 - STANDARDS IMPLEMENTING THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
#### ยง 42.38 Reconsideration of initial decision.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the mailing in the absence of contrary proof.

(b) Every motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. The motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.

(c) Responses to the motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.

(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.

(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.

(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Secretary and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the Secretary in accordance with ยง 42.39 of this part.

(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the Secretary and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the Secretary in accordance with ยง 42.39 of this part.
