
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 46 - POLICY REGARDING PARTICIPATION IN NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK
#### Subpart B - National Practitioner Data Bank Reporting
##### ยง 46.3 Malpractice payment reporting.

(a) VA will file a report with the National Practitioner Data Bank, in accordance with regulations at 45 CFR part 60, subpart B, as applicable, regarding any payment for the benefit of a physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner which was made as the result of a settlement or judgment of a claim of medical malpractice. The report will identify the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner for whose benefit the payment is made. It is intended that the report be filed within 30 days of the date payment is made. This may not be possible in all cases; e.g., sometimes notification of payment is delayed, and sometimes the malpractice payment review process cannot be completed within the timeframe. The report will provide the following information:

(1) With respect to the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner for whose benefit the payment is made-

(i) Name;

(ii) Work address;

(iii) Home address, if known;

(iv) Social Security number, if known, and if obtained in accordance with section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974;

(v) Date of birth;

(vi) Name of each professional school attended and year of graduation;

(vii) For each professional license: the license number, the field of licensure, and the State in which the license is held;

(viii) Drug Enforcement Administration registration number, if applicable and known;

(ix) Name of each health care entity with which affiliated, if known.

(2) With respect to the reporting VA entity-

(i) Name and address of the reporting entity;

(ii) Name, title and telephone number of the responsible official submitting the report on behalf of the Federal government; and

(iii) Relationship of the entity to the physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner being reported.

(3) With respect to the judgment or settlement resulting in the payment-

(i) Where an action or claim has been filed with an adjudicative body, identification of the adjudicative body and the case number;

(ii) Date or dates on which the act(s) or omission(s), which gave rise to the action or claim occurred;

(iii) Date of judgment or settlement;

(iv) Amount paid, date of payment, and whether payment is for a judgment or a settlement;

(v) Description and amount of judgment or settlement and any conditions attached thereto, including terms of payment;

(vi) A description of the acts or omissions and injuries or illnesses upon which the action or claim was based; and

(vii) Classification of the acts or omissions in accordance with a reporting code adopted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(b) Payment will be considered to have been made for the benefit of a physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner only if (at least a majority of) a malpractice payment review panel concludes that payment was related to substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct on the part of the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner. For purposes of this part, a panel shall have a minimum of three individuals appointed by the Director, Medical-Legal Affairs (including at least one member of the profession/occupation of the practitioner(s) whose actions are under review). The conclusions of the panel shall, at a minimum, be based on review of documents pertinent to the care that led to the claim. These documents include the medical records of the patient whose care led to the claim, any report of an administrative investigation board appointed to investigate the care, and the opinion of any consultant which the panel may request in its discretion. These documents do not include those generated primarily for consideration or litigation of the claim of malpractice. In addition, to the extent practicable, the documents shall include written statements of the individual(s) involved in the care which led to the claim. The practitioner(s) whose actions are under review will receive a written notice, hand-delivered or sent to the practitioner's last known address (return receipt requested), from the VA facility director at the time the VA facility director receives the Notice of Payment. That notice from the VA facility director will indicate that VA is considering whether to report the practitioner to the National Practitioner Data Bank because of a specified malpractice payment made, and provide the practitioner the opportunity, within 60 days of receipt, to submit a written statement concerning the care that led to the claim. Inability to notify or non-response from the identified practitioner(s) will not preclude completion of the review and reporting process. The panel, at its discretion, may request additional information from the practitioner or the VA facility where the incident occurred. The review panel's notification to the VA facility Director shall include the acts or omissions considered, the reporting conclusion, and the rationale for the conclusion.

(c) Attending staff (including contract employees, such as scarce medical specialists providing care pursuant to a contract under 38 U.S.C. 7409) are responsible for actions of licensed trainees assigned under their supervision. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, actions of a licensed trainee (intern or resident) acting within the scope of his or her training program that otherwise would warrant reporting for substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, will be reported only if the panel, by at least a majority, concludes that such actions constitute gross negligence or willful professional misconduct. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, payment will be considered to be made for the benefit of a physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner, in their supervisory capacity, if the panel concludes, by at least a majority, that the physician, dentist or other health care practitioner was acting in a supervisory capacity; that the payment was related to substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct of the trainee and not the supervisor; and that the trainee did not commit gross negligence or willful professional misconduct. Such report will note that the physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner is being reported in a supervisory capacity.

(d) The Director of the facility at which the claim arose has the primary responsibility for submitting the report to the National Practitioner Data Bank and for providing a copy to the practitioner, to the State Licensing Board in each State where the practitioner holds a license, and to the State Licensing Board in which the facility is located. However, the Chief Patient Care Services Officer is also authorized to submit the report to the National Practitioner Data Bank and provide copies to the practitioner and State Licensing Boards in cases where the Chief Patient Care Services Officer deems it appropriate to do so. The Director of the facility also shall provide to the practitioner a copy of the review panel's notification to the Director.
