
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart C - Requirements Applicable to Eligibility, Rates, and Payments
##### ยง 51.41 Contracts and State home care agreements for certain veterans with service-connected disabilities.
###### Payments under State home care agreements.

(c)(1) State homes must sign an agreement to receive payment from VA for providing care to certain eligible veterans under a State home care agreement. State home care agreements under this section will provide for payments at the rate determined by the following formula. For State homes in a metropolitan statistical area, use the most recently published CMS Resource Utilization Groups (RUG) case-mix levels for the applicable metropolitan statistical area. For State homes in a rural area, use the most recently published CMS Skilled Nursing Prospective Payment System case-mix levels for the applicable rural area. To compute the daily rate for each State home, multiply the labor component by the State home wage index for each of the applicable case-mix levels; then add to that amount the non-labor component. Divide the sum of the results of these calculations by the number of applicable case-mix levels. Finally, add to this quotient the amount based on the CMS payment schedule for physician services. The amount for physician services, based on information published by CMS, is the average hourly rate for all physicians, with the rate modified by the applicable urban or rural geographic index for physician work, then multiplied by 12, then divided by the number of days in the year.

(2) The State home shall not charge any individual, insurer, or entity (other than VA) for the nursing home care paid for by VA under a State home care agreement. Also, as a condition of receiving payments under paragraph (c), the State home must agree not to accept drugs and medicines from VA provided under 38 U.S.C. 1712(d) on behalf of veterans covered by this section and corresponding VA regulations (payment under this paragraph (c) includes payment for drugs and medicines).

(3) Agreements under this paragraph (c) will be subject to this part, except to the extent that this part conflicts with this section. For purposes of this section, the term "per diem" in part 51 includes payments under State home care agreements.

(4) If a veteran receives a retroactive VA service-connected disability rating and becomes a veteran identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the State home may request payment under the State home care agreement for nursing home care back to the retroactive effective date of the rating or February 2, 2013, whichever is later. For care provided after the effective date but before February 2, 2013, the State home may request payment at the special per diem rate that was in effect at the time that the care was rendered.
