
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart C - Requirements Applicable to Eligibility, Rates, and Payments
##### ยง 51.51 Eligible veterans - domiciliary care.

(a) A veteran is an eligible veteran for the purposes of payment of per diem for domiciliary care in a State home under this part if VA determines that the veteran is not barred from receiving care based on his or her service (see 38 U.S.C. 5303, 5303A), is not barred from receiving VA pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation based on the character of a discharge from military service (see 38 CFR 3.12), and the veteran is:

(1) A veteran whose annual income does not exceed the maximum annual rate of pension payable to a veteran in need of regular aid and attendance; or

(2) A veteran who VA determines has no adequate means of support. The phrase "no adequate means of support" refers to an applicant for domiciliary care whose annual income exceeds the rate of pension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but who is able to demonstrate to competent VA medical authority, on the basis of objective evidence, that deficits in health or functional status render the applicant incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment, as determined by the Chief of Staff of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, and who is otherwise without the means to provide adequately for himself or herself, or be provided for in the community.

(b) For purposes of this section, the eligible veteran must be able to perform the following:

(1) Daily ablutions, such as brushing teeth, bathing, combing hair, and body eliminations, without assistance.

(2) Dress himself or herself with a minimum of assistance.

(3) Proceed to and return from the dining hall without aid.

(4) Feed himself or herself.

(5) Secure medical attention on an ambulatory basis or by use of a personally propelled wheelchair.

(6) Have voluntary control over body eliminations or have control by use of an appropriate prosthesis.

(7) Participate in some measure, however slight, in work assignments that support the maintenance and operation of the State home.

(8) Make rational and competent decisions as to his or her desire to remain in or leave the State home.
