
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart D - Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
##### ยง 51.100 Quality of life.
###### Social Services.

(h)(1) The facility management must provide medically related social services to attain or maintain the highest practicable mental and psychosocial well-being of each resident.

(2) For each 120 beds, a nursing home must employ one or more qualified social workers who work for a total period that equals at least the work time of one full-time employee (FTE). A State home that has more or less than 120 beds must provide qualified social worker services on a proportionate basis (for example, a nursing home with 60 beds must employ one or more qualified social workers who work for a total period equaling at least one-half FTE and a nursing home with 180 beds must employ qualified social workers who work for a total period equaling at least one and one-half FTE).

(3) Qualifications of social worker. A qualified social worker is an individual with-

(i) A bachelor's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (Note: A master's degree social worker with experience in long-term care is preferred), and

(ii) A social work license from the State in which the State home is located, if offered by the State, and

(iii) A minimum of one year of supervised social work experience in a health care setting working directly with individuals.

(4) The facility management must have sufficient support staff to meet patients' social services needs.

(5) Facilities for social services must ensure privacy for interviews.
