
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart D - Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
##### ยง 51.120 Quality of care.
###### Reporting of Sentinel Events,Definition.

(a)-(1)A sentinel event is an adverse event that results in the loss of life or limb or permanent loss of function.

(2) Examples of sentinel events are as follows:

(i) Any resident death, paralysis, coma or other major permanent loss of function associated with a medication error; or

(ii) Any suicide of a resident, including suicides following elopement (unauthorized departure) from the facility; or

(iii) Any elopement of a resident from the facility resulting in a death or a major permanent loss of function; or

(iv) Any procedure or clinical intervention, including restraints, that result in death or a major permanent loss of function; or

(v) Assault, homicide or other crime resulting in patient death or major permanent loss of function; or

(vi) A patient fall that results in death or major permanent loss of function as a direct result of the injuries sustained in the fall.

(3) The facility management must report sentinel events to the director of VA medical center of jurisdiction within 24 hours of identification. The VA medical center of jurisdiction must report sentinel events by calling VA Network Director (10N 1-22) and Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office within 24 hours of notification.

(4) The facility management must establish a mechanism to review and analyze a sentinel event resulting in a written report no later than 10 working days following the event. The purpose of the review and analysis of a sentinel event is to prevent injuries to residents, visitors, and personnel, and to manage those injuries that do occur and to minimize the negative consequences to the injured individuals and facility.
