
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart D - Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
##### ยง 51.130 Nursing services.

The facility management must provide an organized nursing service with a sufficient number of qualified nursing personnel to meet the total nursing care needs, as determined by resident assessment and individualized comprehensive plans of care, of all patients within the facility 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

(a) The nursing service must be under the direction of a full-time registered nurse who is currently licensed by the State and has, in writing, administrative authority, responsibility, and accountability for the functions, activities, and training of the nursing services staff.

(b) The facility management must provide registered nurses 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.

(c) The director of nursing service must designate a registered nurse as a supervising nurse for each tour of duty.

(1) Based on the application and results of the case mix and staffing methodology, the director of nursing may serve in a dual role as director and as an onsite-supervising nurse only when the facility has an average daily occupancy of 60 or fewer residents in nursing home.

(2) Based on the application and results of the case mix and staffing methodology, the evening or night supervising nurse may serve in a dual role as supervising nurse as well as provides direct patient care only when the facility has an average daily occupancy of 60 or fewer residents in nursing home.

(d) The facility management must provide nursing services to ensure that there is direct care nurse staffing of no less than 2.5 hours per patient per 24 hours, 7 days per week in the portion of any building providing nursing home care.

(e) Nurse staffing must be based on a staffing methodology that applies case mix and is adequate for meeting the standards of this part.
