
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart D - Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
##### ยง 51.210 Administration.
###### Level B Requirement Laboratory services.

(m)(1) The facility management must provide or obtain laboratory services to meet the needs of its residents. The facility is responsible for the quality and timeliness of the services.

(i) If the facility provides its own laboratory services, the services must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations for laboratory services.

(ii) If the facility provides blood bank and transfusion services, it must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations.

(iii) If the laboratory chooses to refer specimens for testing to another laboratory, the referral laboratory must be certified in the appropriate specialties and subspecialties of services and meet certification standards, statutes, and regulations.

(iv) The laboratory performing the testing must have a current, valid CLIA number (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988). The facility management must provide VA surveyors with the CLIA number and a copy of the results of the last CLIA inspection.

(v) Such services must be available to the resident seven days a week, 24 hours a day.

(2) The facility management must-

(i) Provide or obtain laboratory services only when ordered by the primary physician;

(ii) Promptly notify the primary physician of the findings;

(iii) Assist the resident in making transportation arrangements to and from the source of service, if the resident needs assistance; and

(iv) File in the resident's clinical record laboratory reports that are dated and contain the name and address of the testing laboratory.
