
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart F - Standards Applicable to the Payment of per Diem for Adult Day Health Care
##### ยง 51.420 Quality of life.
###### Therapeutic participant activities.

(e)(1) The State home must provide for an ongoing program of activities designed to meet, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment, the interests and the physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being of each participant.

(2) The activities program must be directed by a qualified professional who is a qualified therapeutic recreation specialist or an activities professional who:

(i) Is licensed, if applicable, by the State in which practicing; and

(ii) Is certified as a therapeutic recreation specialist or an activities professional by a recognized certifying body.

(3) A critical role of adult day health care is to build relationships and create a culture that supports, involves, and validates the participant. Therapeutic activity refers to that supportive culture and is a significant aspect of the individualized comprehensive care plan. A participant's activity includes everything the individual experiences during the day, not just arranged events. As part of effective therapeutic activity, the adult day health care program must:

(i) Provide direction and support for participants, including breaking down activities into small, discrete steps or behaviors, if needed by a participant;

(ii) Have alternative programming available for any participant unable or unwilling to take part in group activity;

(iii) Design activities that promote personal growth and enhance the self-image and/or improve or maintain the functioning level of participants to the extent possible;

(iv) Provide opportunities for a variety of involvements (social, intellectual, cultural, economic, emotional, physical, and spiritual) at different levels, including community activities and events;

(v) Emphasize participants' strengths and abilities rather than impairments, and contribute to participants' feelings of competence and accomplishment; and

(vi) Provide opportunities to voluntarily perform services for community groups and organizations.
