
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart F - Standards Applicable to the Payment of per Diem for Adult Day Health Care
##### ยง 51.420 Quality of life.
###### Social services.

(f)(1) The State home must provide medically-related social services to participants and their families.

(2) An adult day health care program must provide a qualified social worker to furnish social services.

(3) A qualified social worker is an individual with:

(i) A bachelor's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (A master's degree in social worker with experience in long-term care is preferred);

(ii) A social work license from the State in which the State home is located, if that license is offered by the State; and

(iii) A minimum of one year of supervised social work experience in a health care setting working directly with individuals.

(4) The State home must have sufficient social workers and support staff to meet participant and family social service needs. The adult day health care program must:

(i) Provide counseling to participants and to families/caregivers;

(ii) Facilitate the participant's adaptation to the adult day health care program and active involvement in the comprehensive care plan, if appropriate;

(iii) Arrange for services not provided by adult day health care, and work with these resources to coordinate services;

(iv) Serve as an advocate for participants by asserting and safeguarding the human and civil rights of the participants;

(v) Assess signs of mental illness or dementia and make appropriate referrals;

(vi) Provide information and referral for persons not appropriate for adult day health care;

(vii) Provide family conferences, and serve as liaison between participant, family/caregiver and program staff;

(viii) Provide individual or group counseling and support to caregivers and participants;

(ix) Conduct support groups or facilitate participant or family/caregiver participation in support groups;

(x) Assist program staff in adapting to changes in participants' behavior; and

(xi) Provide or arrange for individual, group, or family psychotherapy for participants with significant psychosocial needs.

(5) Space for social services must be adequate to ensure privacy for interviews.
