
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 51 - PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES
#### Subpart F - Standards Applicable to the Payment of per Diem for Adult Day Health Care
##### ยง 51.480 Transportation.

Transportation of participants to and from the adult day health care facility must be a component of the overall program of care.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the State home must provide for transportation to enable participants, including persons with disabilities, to attend the program and to participate in State home-sponsored outings.

(2) The veteran or the family of a veteran may decline transportation offered by the adult day health care program and make their own arrangements for transportation.

(b) The State home must have a transportation policy that includes procedures for routine and emergency transportation. All transportation (including that provided under contract) must be in compliance with such procedures.

(c) The State home must ensure that the transportation it provides is by drivers who have access to a device for two-way communication.

(d) All systems and vehicles used by the State home to comply with this section must meet all applicable local, State and Federal regulations.

(e) The State home must ensure that the care needs of each participant are addressed during transportation furnished by the home.
