
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 59 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ACQUISITION OF STATE HOMES
#### ยง 59.160 Adult day health care requirements.

As a condition for receiving a grant and grant funds under this part for an adult day health care facility, States must meet the requirements of this section.

(a) Each adult day health care program, when it is co-located in a nursing home, domiciliary, or other care facility, must have its own separate designated space during operational hours.

(b) The indoor space for an adult day health care program must be at least 100 square feet per participant including office space for staff, and must be 60 square feet per participant excluding office space for staff.

(c) Each program will need to design and partition its space to meet its own needs, but the following functional areas must be available:

(1) A dividable multipurpose room or area for group activities, including dining, with adequate table setting space.

(2) Rehabilitation rooms or an area for individual and group treatments for occupational therapy, physical therapy, and other treatment modalities.

(3) A kitchen area for refrigerated food storage, the preparation of meals and/or training participants in activities of daily living.

(4) An examination and/or medication room.

(5) A quiet room (with at least one bed), which functions to isolate participants who become ill or disruptive, or who require rest, privacy, or observation. It should be separate from activity areas, near a restroom, and supervised.

(6) Bathing facilities adequate to facilitate bathing of participants with functional impairments.
