
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 60 - FISHER HOUSES AND OTHER TEMPORARY LODGING
#### ยง 60.20 Duration of Fisher House or other temporary lodging.

Fisher House or other temporary lodging may be awarded for the following periods:

(a) While the veteran is undergoing an episode of care.

(b) While the veteran is hospitalized, if the veteran is admitted to a VA health care facility while undergoing an outpatient episode of care for which temporary lodging was already provided.

(c) As extended by the appropriate VA clinician or social worker based on an emergency situation or unforeseen circumstances.

(d) For an indefinite period for accompanying individuals who are visiting veterans hospitalized for an indefinite period, provided that the accompanying individual is not using a VA health care facility bed. Whether a veteran is hospitalized for an indefinite period will be based upon the treatment or rehabilitation needs of the veteran as determined by the veteran's health care team.

(e) Temporary lodging may be furnished the night before the day of a scheduled appointment if, the veteran leaving home after 8:00 a.m., would be unable to arrive at the VA health care facility by the time of the scheduled appointment.

(f) Temporary lodging may be furnished the night of the scheduled appointment if, after the appointment, the veteran would be unable to return home before 7:00 p.m. When a veteran is undergoing outpatient treatment or procedures the veteran and accompanying individual(s) may be furnished temporary lodging for the duration of the episode of care subject to limitations described in this section.
