
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 61 - VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Capital Grants
##### ยง 61.12 Capital grant application packages - threshold requirements.

The following threshold requirements for a capital grant application must be met, or the application will be rejected before being rated under ยง 61.13:

(a) The application package must meet all of the following criteria:

(1) Be on the correct application form.

(2) Be completed in all parts, including all information requested in the Notice of Fund Availability and application package.

(3) Include a signed Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424) that contains the Employer Identification Number or Taxpayer Identification Number (EIN/TIN) that corresponds to the applicant's Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 501(c)(3) or (19) determination letter. All applicants must provide such an IRS determination letter, which includes their EIN/TIN. Applicants that apply under a group EIN/TIN must be identified by the parent EIN/TIN as a member or sub-unit of the parent EIN/TIN and provide supporting documentation.

(4) Be submitted before the deadline established in the Notice of Fund Availability.

(b) The applicant must be a public or nonprofit private entity at the time of application.

(c) The activities for which assistance is requested must be eligible for funding under this part.

(d) The applicant must demonstrate that adequate financial support will be available to carry out the project for which the capital grant is sought, consistent with the plans, specifications, and schedule submitted by the applicant.

(e) The application must demonstrate compliance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655).

(f) The applicant must agree to comply with the requirements of this part and demonstrate the capacity to do so.

(g) The applicant must not have an outstanding obligation to VA that is in arrears, or have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit.

(h) The applicant must not have been notified by VA as being in default.

(i) The applicant, during the 5 years preceding the date of the application, must not have done any of the following:

(1) Had more than two grants awarded under this part that remain in development;

(2) Failed to establish two previous awarded grant projects under this part; or

(3) Had a previous grant or per diem project awarded under this part terminated or transferred to another eligible entity for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award.
