
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 61 - VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Capital Grants
##### § 61.14 Capital grants - selection of grantees.

(a) Applicants will first be grouped in categories according to the funding priorities set forth in the NOFA, if any. Applicants will then be ranked, within their respective funding category if applicable. The highest-ranked applications for which funding is available, within highest priority funding category if applicable, will be conditionally selected to receive a capital grant in accordance with their ranked order, as determined under § 61.13. If funding priorities have been established and funds are still available after selection of those applicants in the highest priority group VA will continue to conditionally select applicants in lower priority categories in accordance with the selection method set forth in this paragraph subject to available funding.

(b) In the event of a tie between applicants, VA will use the score from § 61.13(g) to determine the ranking. If the score from § 61.13(g) is also tied, VA will use the score from § 61.13(d) to determine the ranking.

(c) VA may reject an application where the project is not cost effective based on the cost and number of new supportive housing beds made available-or based on the cost, amount, and types of supportive services made available-when compared to other supportive housing or services projects, and when adjusted for high cost areas. For those applications that VA believes not to be cost-effective VA will;

(1) Reduce the award; or

(2) Not select the application for funding.

(d) VA may not reject an application solely on the basis that the entity proposes to use funding from other private or public sources, if the entity demonstrates that a private nonprofit organization will provide oversight and site control for the project. In this section "private nonprofit organization" means one of the following:

(1) An incorporated private institution, organization, or foundation-

(i) That has received, or has temporary clearance to receive, tax-exempt status under paragraph (2), (3), or (19) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;

(ii) For which no part of the net earnings of the institution, organization, or foundation inures to the benefit of any member, founder, or contributor of the institution, organization, or foundation; and

(iii) That VA determines is financially responsible.

(2) A for-profit limited partnership or limited liability company, the sole general partner or manager of which is an organization that is described by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) A corporation wholly owned and controlled by an organization that is described by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e) In the case of a previously awarded project that can no longer provide services and or housing and the recipient agency has decided to withdraw or the project has been terminated for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award; VA may transfer a capital grant or non-capital grant to another eligible entity in the same geographical area without competition, in order to prevent a loss of capacity of services and housing to homeless veterans. The new entity must meet all of the requirements to which the original grantee was subject. In the case of a capital grant transfer the new grantee will only be entitled to the funding that remains from the original capital obligation and remains responsible for all commitments made by the original grantee.
