
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 61 - VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Capital Grants
##### ยง 61.17 Site control for capital grants.

(a) In order to receive a capital grant for supportive housing or a fixed site service center, an applicant must demonstrate site control. Site control must be demonstrated through a deed or an executed contract of sale, or a capital lease, which assigns control or ownership to the entity whose Federal employer or taxpayer identification number is on the Application for Federal Assistance (SF424), unless one of the following apply:

(1) VA gives written permission for an alternate assignment. VA will permit alternate assignments except when:

(i) The alternate assignment is to a for-profit entity which is neither controlled by the applicant or by the applicant's parent organization or the entity is controlled by the applicant's parent organization which is a for-profit entity; or

(ii) VA has a reasonable concern that the assignment may provide an economic or monetary benefit to the assignee other than the benefit that would have inured to the applicant had the applicant not made the alternate assignment.

(2) The site is in a building or on land owned by VA, and the applicant has an agreement with VA for site control.

(b) A capital grant recipient may change the site to a new site meeting the requirements of this part subject to VA approval under ยง 61.62. However, the recipient is responsible for and must demonstrate ability to provide for any additional costs resulting from the change in site.

(c) If site control is not demonstrated within 1 year after execution of an agreement under ยง 61.61, the grantee may request a reasonable extension from the VA national GPD office, or the grant may be terminated. VA will authorize an extension request if the grantee was not at fault for being unable to exercise site control and the lack of site control does not affect the grantee's ability to complete the project.
