
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 61 - VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Awards, Monitoring, and Enforcement of Agreements
##### ยง 61.80 General operation requirements for supportive housing and service centers.
###### i.e.

(n) The recipient will inform within 24 hours its VA liaison of any sentinel events occurring within the program (, drug overdose, death, injury).

(o) The grantee, or sub-grantee, will provide appropriate orientation and training to staff to enable them to provide quality services that are appropriate to homeless veteran or homeless special need veteran population.

(p) The grantee will maintain systematic participant enrollment information and participant tracking records designed to facilitate the uniform compilation and analysis of programmatic data necessary for verification of veteran status and case management, reporting, monitoring, and evaluation purposes.

(q) The grantee will also document in each participant record at a minimum:

(1) Family status.

(2) Verification of veteran status (DD214, Department of Veterans Affairs confirmation report and/or identification card).

(3) Education, employment history, and marketable skills/licenses/credentials.

(4) An Individual Service Plan (ISP) for each individual participant will be maintained in the participant case management record which contains the following:

(i) An assessment of barriers, service needs, as well as strengths; and

(ii) Specific services and referrals planned and benefits to be achieved as a result of program participation.

(5) Duration and outcome of supportive service.

(6) The grantee must verify service outcomes each calendar year quarter through the participant and provide documentation of this verification in the participant case management files.

(r) The grantee will ensure that no more than 25 percent of the grant awarded beds are occupied by non-veterans, or VA may take actions as appropriate to decrease the beds, grant amounts, or terminate the grant and seek recapture in the case of capital funding. To calculate the occupancy rate, divide the actual number of bed days of care for veterans eligible to reside in the project, by the total number of possible bed days of care (the previous 180 days from the most current 6 month period).
