
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 61 - VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM
#### Subpart G - Case Management Services Grant Program
##### § 61.92 Grant for case management services - application and rating criteria.
###### e.g.,

(1) The applicant must submit an application and comply with the application requirements identified in the NOFA,complete all parts of the correct form and include all information requested in the NOFA.

(2) Include a signed Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424) that contains the applicant's Employer Identification Number or Taxpayer Identification Number (EIN/TIN). All non-profit applicants must provide their Internal Revenue Service 501(c)(3) or (19) determination letter, which includes the EIN/TIN contained in the application. Applicants that apply under a group EIN/TIN must be identified by the parent EIN/TIN as a member or sub-unit of the parent EIN/TIN and provide supporting documentation.

(3) The application must be received before the deadline established in the NOFA.

(4) The applicant must be a nonprofit organization or a State, local, or tribal government.

(5) The activities for which assistance is requested must be eligible for funding under §§ 61.90-61.98.

(6) The applicant must agree to comply with the requirements of §§ 61.90 through 61.98 and demonstrate the capacity to do so.

(7) The applicant must not have an outstanding obligation to VA that is in arrears, or have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit.

(8) The applicant must not have been notified by VA as being in default.
