
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 62 - SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR VETERAN FAMILIES PROGRAM
#### ยง 62.24 Scoring criteria for grantees applying for renewal of supportive services grants.

VA will use the following criteria to score grantees applying for renewal of a supportive services grant:

(a) VA will award up to 55 points based on the success of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) Participants made progress in achieving housing stability.

(2) Participants were satisfied with the supportive services provided by the grantee.

(3) The grantee implemented the program and delivered supportive services to participants in a timely manner.

(4) The grantee prevented homelessness among very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing that were most at risk of homelessness.

(5) The grantee's program reduced homelessness among very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing in the area or community served by the grantee.

(b) VA will award up to 30 points based on the cost-effectiveness of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The cost per participant household was reasonable.

(2) The grantee's program was effectively implemented on-budget.

(c) VA will award up to 15 points based on the extent to which the grantee's program complies with Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program goals and requirements, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with VA's goals for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.

(2) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.

(3) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with the grantee's supportive services grant agreement.
