
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 64 - GRANTS FOR THE RURAL VETERANS COORDINATION PILOT (RVCP)
#### ยง 64.10 Application.
##### http://www.grants.gov

(a) To apply for an RVCP grant, eligible entities must submit to VA a complete application package. Applications will be accepted only through Grants.gov ().

(b) A complete RVCP grant application package includes the following:

(1) A description of the services to be provided and which of the permissible uses for RVCP grants outlined in ยง 64.6(a) the services are intended to fulfill.

(2) A description, with supporting documentation, of the need for the proposed project in the proposed location, including an estimate, with supporting documentation, of the number of veterans and families that will be provided services by the applicant.

(3) A description, with supporting documentation, of how the proposed project location qualifies as a rural or an underserved community, as defined in this part.

(4) Documentation evidencing the applicant's experience in providing the proposed services, particularly to veterans and their families.

(5) Evidence of a clear, realistic, and measurable program of self-evaluation and monitoring, including a documented commitment to remediate any identified noncompliance.

(6) Documentation of the ability of the applicant to administer the project, including plans to:

(i) Continuously assess and adapt to the needs of participants for services under the RVCP grant;

(ii) Coordinate and customize the provision of services to the identified needs of the participants;

(iii) Comply with and implement the requirements of this part throughout the term of the RVCP grant; and

(iv) Complete and submit timely reports of RVCP grant activities.

(7) A description of any assistance received from or any consultations with VA or Veterans Service Organizations in the development of the proposal being submitted.

(8) Any additional information deemed appropriate by VA and set forth in the NOFA.

(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control numbers 4040-0003, 4040-0004, 4040-0006, 4040-0007, 4040-0008, 4040-0009, and 4040-0010)
