
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### ยง 71.20 Eligible veterans and servicemembers.

A veteran or servicemember is eligible for a Family Caregiver under this part if he or she meets the criteria in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, subject to the limitations set forth in such paragraphs.

(a) A veteran or servicemember is eligible for a Primary or Secondary Family Caregiver under this part if he or she meets all of the following requirements:

(1) The individual is either:

(i) A veteran; or

(ii) A member of the Armed Forces undergoing a medical discharge from the Armed Forces.

(2) The individual has a serious injury incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service:

(i) On or after September 11, 2001;

(ii) Effective October 1, 2020, on or before May 7, 1975; or

(iii) Effective October 1, 2022, after May 7, 1975 and before September 11, 2001.

(3) The individual is in need of personal care services for a minimum of six continuous months based on any one of the following:

(i) An inability to perform an activity of daily living; or

(ii) A need for supervision, protection, or instruction.

(4) It is in the best interest of the individual to participate in the program.

(5) Personal care services that would be provided by the Family Caregiver will not be simultaneously and regularly provided by or through another individual or entity.

(6) The individual receives care at home or will do so if VA designates a Family Caregiver.

(7) The individual receives ongoing care from a primary care team or will do so if VA designates a Family Caregiver.

(b) For five years beginning on October 1, 2020, a veteran or servicemember is eligible for a Primary or Secondary Family Caregiver under this part if he or she is a legacy participant.

(c) For five years beginning on October 1, 2020, a veteran or servicemember is eligible for a Primary or Secondary Family Caregiver under this part if he or she is a legacy applicant.
