
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### § 71.25 Approval and designation of Primary and Secondary Family Caregivers.
##### Application requirement.

(a)(1) Individuals who wish to be considered for designation by VA as Primary or Secondary Family Caregivers must submit a joint application, along with the veteran or servicemember. Individuals interested in serving as Family Caregivers must be identified as such on the joint application, and no more than three individuals may serve as Family Caregivers at one time for an eligible veteran, with no more than one serving as the Primary Family Caregiver and no more than two serving as Secondary Family Caregivers.

(2)(i) Upon receiving such application, VA (in collaboration with the primary care team to the maximum extent practicable) will perform the evaluations required to determine the eligibility of the applicants under this part, and if eligible, determine the applicable monthly stipend amount under § 71.40(c)(4). Notwithstanding the first sentence, VA will not evaluate a veteran's or servicemember's eligibility under § 71.20 when a joint application is received to add a Secondary Family Caregiver for an eligible veteran who has a designated Primary Family Caregiver.

(ii) Individuals who apply to be Family Caregivers must complete all necessary eligibility evaluations (along with the veteran or servicemember), education and training, and the initial home-care assessment (along with the veteran or servicemember) so that VA may complete the designation process no later than 90 days after the date the joint application was received by VA. If such requirements are not complete within 90 days from the date the joint application is received by VA, the joint application will be denied, and a new joint application will be required. VA may extend the 90-day period based on VA's inability to complete the eligibility evaluations, provide necessary education and training, or conduct the initial home-care assessment, when such inability is solely due to VA's action.

(3)(i) Except as provided in this paragraph, joint applications received by VA before October 1, 2020 will be evaluated by VA based on 38 CFR 71.15, 71.20, and 71.25 (2019). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the term "joint application" as defined in § 71.15 applies to applications described in this paragraph.

(ii) Joint applications received by VA on or after October 1, 2020 will be evaluated by VA based on the provisions of this part in effect on or after October 1, 2020.

(A) VA will deny any joint application of an individual described in § 71.20(a)(2)(ii), if such joint application is received by VA before October 1, 2020. A veteran or servicemember seeking to qualify for the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers pursuant to § 71.20(a)(2)(ii) should submit a joint application that is received by VA on or after October 1, 2020.

(B) VA will deny any joint application of an individual described in § 71.20(a)(2)(iii), if such joint application is received by VA before October 1, 2022. A veteran or servicemember seeking to qualify for the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers pursuant to § 71.20(a)(2)(iii) should submit a joint application that is received by VA on or after October 1, 2022.
