
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### ยง 71.40 Caregiver benefits.
##### Secondary Family Caregiver benefits.

(b)VA will provide to Secondary Family Caregivers all of the benefits listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) General Caregiver benefits described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that respite care under paragraph (a)(4) is limited to veterans enrolled in the VA health care system. Respite care may be provided during a Family Caregiver's training, as described under ยง 71.25(d).

(2) Wellness contacts to review the eligible veteran's well-being, adequacy of personal care services being provided by the Family Caregiver(s), and the well-being of the Family Caregiver(s). This wellness contact will occur, in general, at a minimum of once every 120 days, and at least one visit must occur in the eligible veteran's home on an annual basis. Failure of the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver to participate in any wellness contacts pursuant to this paragraph will result in revocation pursuant to ยง 71.45, Revocation and Discharge of Family Caregivers.

(3) Continuing instruction, preparation, and training to maintain or improve the personal care services provided to the eligible veteran.

(4) Ongoing technical support, consisting of information and assistance to address, in a timely manner, the routine, emergency, and specialized needs of the caregiver in providing personal care services to the eligible veteran.

(5) Counseling, which for the purposes of paragraph (b) of this section includes individual and group therapy, individual counseling, and peer support groups. Counseling does not include the provision of medication, inpatient psychiatric care, or other medical procedures related to mental health treatment. Counseling does not have to be in connection with the treatment of a disability for which the eligible veteran is receiving treatment from VA.

(6) Primary and Secondary Family Caregivers are eligible for beneficiary travel under 38 CFR part 70 if the eligible veteran is eligible for beneficiary travel under 38 CFR part 70.
