
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### ยง 71.40 Caregiver benefits.
##### Effective date of benefits under the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.

(d)Except for paragraphs (b)(6) and (c)(3) and (4) of this section, caregiver benefits under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are effective upon approval and designation under ยง 71.25(f). Caregiver benefits under paragraphs (b)(6) and (c)(3) and (4) are effective on the latest of the following dates:

(1) The date the joint application that resulted in approval and designation of the Family Caregiver is received by VA.

(2) The date the eligible veteran begins receiving care at home.

(3) The date the Family Caregiver begins providing personal care services to the eligible veteran at home.

(4) In the case of a new Family Caregiver applying to be the Primary Family Caregiver for an eligible veteran, the day after the effective date of revocation or discharge of the previous Primary Family Caregiver for the eligible veteran (such that there is only one Primary Family Caregiver designated for an eligible veteran at one time).

(5) In the case of a new Family Caregiver applying to be a Secondary Family Caregiver for an eligible veteran who already has two Secondary Family Caregivers approved and designated by VA, the day after the effective date of revocation or discharge of a previous Secondary Family Caregiver for the eligible veteran (such that there are no more than two Secondary Family Caregivers designated for an eligible veteran at one time).

(6) In the case of a current or previous Family Caregiver reapplying with the same eligible veteran, the day after the date of revocation or discharge under ยง 71.45, or in the case of extended benefits under ยง 71.45(b)(1)(iii), (b)(2)(iii), (b)(3)(iii)(A) or (B), and (b)(4)(iv), the day after the last date on which such Family Caregiver received caregiver benefits.

(7) The day after the date a joint application is denied.
