
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### ยง 71.45 Revocation and discharge of Family Caregivers.
##### Revocation date.

(2)All caregiver benefits will continue to be provided to the Family Caregiver until the date of revocation.

(i) In the case of revocation based on fraud committed by the Family Caregiver or eligible veteran under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date the fraud began. If VA cannot identify when the fraud began, the date of revocation will be the earliest date that the fraud is known by VA to have been committed, and no later than the date on which VA identifies that fraud was committed.

(ii) In the case of revocation based on paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(B) through (D) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date VA determines the criteria in any such paragraph has been met.

(iii) In the case of revocation based on noncompliance under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, revocation takes effect as of the effective date provided in VA's final notice of such revocation to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver. The effective date of revocation will be no earlier than 60 days after VA provides advanced notice of its findings to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver.

(iv) In the case of revocation based on VA error under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date the error was made. If VA cannot identify when the error was made, the date of revocation will be the earliest date that the error is known by VA to have occurred, and no later than the date on which VA identifies that the error occurred.
