
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 71 - CAREGIVERS BENEFITS AND CERTAIN MEDICAL BENEFITS OFFERED TO FAMILY MEMBERS OF VETERANS
#### ยง 71.50 Provision of certain counseling, training, and mental health services to certain family members of veterans.
##### Benefits provided under this section.

(a)VA will provide consultation, professional counseling, marriage and family counseling, training, and mental health services to a family member when necessary in connection with the treatment of a disability for which the veteran is receiving treatment through VA. For the purposes of this section, provision of a benefit is "in connection with the treatment" of a veteran's disability if, in the clinical judgment of a VA medical professional who is providing treatment to the veteran, the provision of the benefit to the family member would further the objectives of the veteran's medical treatment plan. The listed benefits provided under this section are to be provided within the following guidelines:

(1) All benefits will consist of psychotherapy, counseling, training, or education; VA will not provide prescriptions or medications to family members. VA also will not provide inpatient services under this section.

(2) This section does not authorize the provision of clinical evaluation or treatment that is not necessary in connection with the veteran's treatment or that involves treatment other than consultation, professional counseling, marriage and family counseling, training, and mental health services.

(3) Marriage and family counseling includes services to help the veteran address mental health issues, manage physical health problems, and strengthen environmental supports as specified in the veteran's treatment plan. It also includes interventions to reduce the negative impact for the veteran of mental illnesses or other medical conditions in family members.
