
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 78 - STAFF SERGEANT PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 78.15 Applications for suicide prevention services grants.
##### i.e.,

(iv) Tailor (provide individualized) suicide prevention services to the needs of eligible individuals and their families;

(v) Seek continuously new sources of assistance to ensure the continuity of suicide prevention services for eligible individuals and their families as long as the eligible individuals are determined to be at risk of suicide; and

(vi) Measure the effects of suicide prevention services provided by applicant or partner organization on the lives of eligible individuals and their families who receive such services provided by the organization using pre- and post-evaluations on validated measures of suicide risk and mood-related symptoms.

(8) Clearly defined objectives for the provision of suicide prevention services.

(9) A description and physical address of the primary location of the applicant.

(10) A description of the geographic area the applicant plans to serve during the grant award period for which the application applies.

(11) If the applicant is a State or local government or an Indian tribe, the amount of grant funds proposed to be made available to community partners, if any, through agreements.

(12) A description of how the applicant will assess the effectiveness of the provision of grants under this part.

(13) An agreement to use the measures and metrics provided by VA for the purposes of measuring the effectiveness of the programming to be provided in improving mental health status, wellbeing, and reducing suicide risk and suicide deaths of eligible individuals and their families.

(14) An agreement to comply with and implement the requirements of this part throughout the term of the suicide prevention services grant.

(15) Any additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.

(b) Subject to funding availability, grantees may submit an application for renewal of a suicide prevention services grant if the grantee's program will remain substantially the same. To apply for renewal of a suicide prevention services grant, a grantee must submit to VA a complete suicide prevention services grant renewal application package, as described in the NOFO.

(c) VA may request in writing that an applicant or grantee, as applicable, submit other information or documentation relevant to the suicide prevention services grant application.
