
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 78 - STAFF SERGEANT PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 78.30 Selection of grantees.

VA will use the following process to select applicants to receive suicide prevention services grants:

(a) VA will score all applicants that meet the threshold requirements set forth in ยง 78.20 using the scoring criteria set forth in ยง 78.25.

(b) VA will group applicants within the applicable funding priorities if funding priorities are set forth in the NOFO.

(c) VA will rank those applicants that receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the NOFO, within their respective funding priority group, if any. The applicants will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores, within their respective funding priority group, if any.

(d) VA will use the applicant's ranking as the primary basis for selection for funding. However, VA will also use the following considerations to select applicants for funding:

(1) VA will give preference to applicants that have demonstrated the ability to provide or coordinate suicide prevention services;

(2) VA may prioritize the distribution of suicide prevention services grants to:

(i) Rural communities;

(ii) Tribal lands;

(iii) Territories of the United States;

(iv) Medically underserved areas;

(v) Areas with a high number or percentage of minority veterans or women veterans; and

(vi) Areas with a high number or percentage of calls to the Veterans Crisis Line.

(3) To the extent practicable, VA will ensure that suicide prevention services grants are distributed to:

(i) Provide services in areas of the United States that have experienced high rates of suicide by eligible individuals, including suicide attempts; and

(ii) Applicants that can assist eligible individuals at risk of suicide who are not currently receiving health care furnished by VA.

(iii) Ensure services are provided in as many areas as possible.

(e) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will fund the highest-ranked applicants for which funding is available, within the highest funding priority group, if any. If funding priorities have been established, to the extent funding is available and subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will select applicants in the next highest funding priority group based on their rank within that group.

(f) If an applicant would have been selected but for a procedural error committed by VA, VA may select that applicant for funding when sufficient funds become available if there is no material change in the information that would have resulted in the applicant's selection. A new application will not be required for this purpose.
