
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 78 - STAFF SERGEANT PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 78.35 Scoring criteria for grantees applying for renewal of suicide prevention service grants.

VA will score grantees who are applying for a renewal of suicide prevention services grant. VA will set forth specific point values to be awarded for each criterion in the NOFO. VA will use the following criteria to score grantees applying for renewal of a suicide prevention services grant:

(a) VA will award points based on the success of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The grantee made progress in reducing veteran suicide deaths and attempts, reducing all-cause mortality, reducing suicidal ideation, increasing financial stability; improving mental health status, well-being, and social supports; and engaging in best practices for suicide prevention services.

(2) Participants were satisfied with the suicide prevention services provided or coordinated by the grantee, as reflected by the satisfaction survey conducted under ยง 78.95(d).

(3) The grantee implemented the program by delivering or coordinating suicide prevention services to participants in a timely manner consistent with SSG Fox SPGP policy, the NOFO, and the grant agreement.

(4) The grantee was effective in conducting outreach to eligible individuals and their families and increasing engagement of eligible individuals and their families in suicide prevention services, as assessed through SSG Fox SPGP grant evaluation.

(b) VA will award points based on the cost-effectiveness of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The cost per participant was reasonable.

(2) The grantee's program was effectively implemented on-budget.

(c) VA will award points based on the extent to which the grantee's program complies with SSG Fox SPGP goals and requirements, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with VA's goals for SSG Fox SPGP as noted in the NOFO.

(2) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.

(3) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with the grantee's suicide prevention services grant agreement.
