
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 78 - STAFF SERGEANT PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 78.50 Suicide prevention services: Baseline mental health screening.

(a) Grantees must provide or coordinate the provision of a baseline mental health screening to all participants they serve at the time those services begin. This mental health screening must be provided using a validated screening tool that assesses suicide risk and mental and behavioral health conditions. Information on the specific tool or tools to be used will be included in the NOFO.

(b) If an eligible individual is at risk of suicide or other mental or behavioral health condition pursuant to the baseline mental health screening conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, the grantee must refer such individual to VA for care. If the eligible individual refuses the grantee's referral to VA, any ongoing clinical services provided to the eligible individual by the grantee are at the expense of the grantee.

(c) If a participant other than an eligible individual is at risk of suicide or other mental or behavioral health condition pursuant to the baseline mental health screening conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, the grantee must refer such participant to appropriate health care services in the area unless the grantee is capable of furnishing such care. Any ongoing clinical services provided to the participant by the grantee are at the expense of the grantee.

(d) Except as provided for under ยง 78.60(a), funds provided under this grant program may not be used to provide clinical services to participants, and any ongoing clinical services provided to such individuals by the grantee are at the expense of the grantee. The grantee may not charge, bill, or otherwise hold liable participants for the receipt of such care or services.
