
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 78 - STAFF SERGEANT PARKER GORDON FOX SUICIDE PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 78.115 Suicide prevention services grant agreements.

(a) After an applicant is selected for a suicide prevention services grant in accordance with ยง 78.30, VA will draft a suicide prevention services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the applicant. Upon execution of the suicide prevention services grant agreement, VA will obligate suicide prevention services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved suicide prevention services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The suicide prevention services grant agreement will provide that the grantee agrees, and will ensure that each community partner agrees, to:

(1) Operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and the applicant's suicide prevention services grant application;

(2) Comply with such other terms and conditions, including recordkeeping and reports for program monitoring and evaluation purposes, as VA may establish for purposes of carrying out SSG Fox SPGP, in an effective and efficient manner; and

(3) Provide such additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.

(b) After a grantee is selected for renewal of a suicide prevention services grant in accordance with ยง 78.40, VA will draft a suicide prevention services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the grantee. Upon execution of the suicide prevention services grant agreement, VA will obligate suicide prevention services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved suicide prevention services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The suicide prevention services grant agreement will contain the same provisions described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) No funds provided under this part may be used to replace Federal, State, tribal, or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist eligible individuals and their families.
