
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 79 - LEGAL SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT-RISK FOR HOMELESSNESS GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 79.40 Selection of grantees.

VA will use the following process to select applicants to receive legal services grants:

(a) VA will score all applicants that meet the threshold requirements set forth in ยง 79.30 using the scoring criteria set forth in ยง 79.35.

(b) VA will group applicants within the applicable funding priorities if funding priorities are set forth in the NOFO.

(c) VA will rank those applicants who receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the NOFO, within their respective funding priority group, if any. The applicants will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores, within their respective funding priority group, if any.

(d) VA will use the applicant's ranking as the primary basis for selection for funding. However, VA will also use the following considerations to select applicants for funding:

(1) VA will give preference to applicants that have the demonstrated ability to provide the provision of legal services eligible individuals who are homeless, at risk for homelessness or have very low income, as defined by this part.

(2) To the extent practicable, VA will ensure that legal services grants are equitably distributed across geographic regions, including rural communities, trust lands, Native Americans, and tribal organizations.

(3) VA will give preference to applicants with a demonstrated focus on women veterans as set forth in the NOFO.

(e) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will fund the highest-ranked applicants for which funding is available, within the highest funding priority group, if any. If funding priorities have been established, to the extent funding is available and subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will select applicants in the next highest funding priority group based on their rank within that group.

(f) If an applicant would have been selected but for a procedural error committed by VA, VA may select that applicant for funding when sufficient funds become available if there is no material change in the information that would have resulted in the applicant's selection. A new application would not be required.
