
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 79 - LEGAL SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT-RISK FOR HOMELESSNESS GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 79.45 Scoring criteria for grantees applying for renewal of legal services grants.

VA will score applicants who are applying for a renewal of a legal services grant. VA will set forth specific point values to be awarded for each criterion in the NOFO. VA will use the following criteria to score grantees applying for renewal of a legal services grant:

(a) VA will award points based on the success of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) Participants were satisfied with the legal services provided by the grantee.

(2) The grantee delivered legal services to participants in a timely manner.

(3) The grantee implemented the program by developing and sustaining relationships with community partners to refer veterans in need of legal services.

(4) The grantee was effective in conducting outreach to eligible veterans, including specifically to women veterans, and increased engagement of eligible veterans seeking legal services provided by the grantee.

(b) VA will award points based on the cost effectiveness of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The cost per participant was reasonable.

(2) The grantee's program was effectively implemented within budget.

(c) VA will award points based on the extent to which the grantee complied with the Grant Program's goals and requirements, as demonstrated by the following:

(1) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with VA's goals for the Grant Program as described in the NOFO.

(2) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.

(3) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with the grantee's legal services grant agreement.
