
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 79 - LEGAL SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT-RISK FOR HOMELESSNESS GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 79.70 Legal services grant agreements.

(a) After an applicant is selected for a legal services grant in accordance with ยง 79.40, VA will draft a legal services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the grantee. Upon execution of the legal services grant agreement, VA will obligate legal services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved legal services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The legal services grant agreement will provide that the grantee agrees, and will ensure that each subcontractor agrees, to:

(1) Operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and the applicant's legal services grant application;

(2) Comply with such other terms and conditions, including recordkeeping and reports for program monitoring and evaluation purposes, as VA may establish for purposes of carrying out the Grant Program, in an effective and efficient manner; and

(3) Provide such additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.

(b) After a grantee is selected for renewal of a legal services grant in accordance with ยง 79.50, VA will draft a legal services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the grantee. Upon execution of the legal services grant agreement, VA will obligate legal services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved legal services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The legal services grant agreement will contain the same provisions described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) No funds provided under this part may be used to replace Federal, State, tribal, or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist eligible veterans.
