
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 79 - LEGAL SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT-RISK FOR HOMELESSNESS GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 79.75 Program or budget changes and corrective action plans.

(a) A grantee must submit to VA a written request to modify a legal services grant for any proposed significant change that will alter its legal services grant program. If VA approves such change, VA will issue a written amendment to the legal services grant agreement. A grantee must receive VA's approval prior to implementing a significant change. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, a change in the grantee or any subcontractors identified in the legal services grant agreement; a change in the area or community served by the grantee; additions or deletions of legal services provided by the grantee; a change in category of eligible veterans to be served; and a change in budget line items that are more than 10 percent of the total legal services grant award.

(1) VA's approval of changes is contingent upon the grantee's amended application retaining a sufficient rank to have been competitively selected for funding in the year that the application was granted.

(2) Each legal services grant modification request must contain a description of the revised proposed use of legal services grant funds.

(b) VA may require that the grantee initiate, develop, and submit to VA for approval a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) if, on a quarterly basis, actual legal services grant expenditures vary from the amount disbursed to a grantee for that same quarter or actual legal services grant activities vary from the grantee's program description provided in the legal services grant agreement.

(1) The CAP must identify the expenditure or activity source that has caused the deviation, describe the reason(s) for the variance, provide specific proposed corrective action(s), and provide a timetable for accomplishment of the corrective action.

(2) After receipt of the CAP, VA will send a letter to the grantee indicating that the CAP is approved or disapproved. If disapproved, VA will make beneficial suggestions to improve the proposed CAP and request resubmission or take other actions in accordance with this part.
