
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter I - Department of Veterans Affairs
### PART 79 - LEGAL SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT-RISK FOR HOMELESSNESS GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 79.95 Grantee reporting requirements.

(a) VA may require grantees to provide, in such form as may be prescribed, such reports or answers in writing to specific questions, surveys, or questionnaires as VA determines necessary to carry out the Grant Program.

(b) At least once per year, or at the frequency set by VA, each grantee must submit to VA a report containing information relating to operational effectiveness; fiscal responsibility; legal services grant agreement compliance; and legal and regulatory compliance. This report must include a breakdown of how the grantee used the legal services grant funds; the number of participants assisted; information on each participant's gender, age, race, and service era; a description of the legal services provided to each participant; and any other information that VA requests.

(c) VA may request additional reports to allow VA to fully assess the provision legal services under this part.

(d) Grantees must relate financial data to performance data and develop unit cost information whenever practical.

(e) All pages of the reports must cite the assigned legal services grant number and be submitted in a timely manner as set forth in the grant agreement.

(f) Grantees must provide VA with consent to post information from reports on the internet and use such information in other ways deemed appropriate by VA. Grantees must clearly redact information that is confidential based on attorney-client privilege, unless that privilege has been waived by the client.
