
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter II - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 200 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### ยง 200.4 Implementation of NEPA and related authorities.
##### See

(C) One (or more) CATEX (appendix A to part 200) encompasses the proposed action. Identify a CATEX (or multiple CATEXs) that potentially encompasses the proposed action. If no CATEX is appropriate, and the project is not exempted by statute or emergency provisions, an EA or an EIS must be prepared, before a proposed action may proceed.

(ii) Extraordinary circumstances that preclude the use of a CATEX are:

(A) Reasonable likelihood of significant effects on public health, safety, or the environment.

(B) Reasonable likelihood of significant environmental effects (direct, indirect, and cumulative).

(C) Imposition of uncertain or unique environmental risks.

(D) Greater scope or size than is normal for this category of action.

(E) Reportable releases of hazardous or toxic substances as specified in 40 CFR part 302.

(F) Releases of petroleum, oils, and lubricants, application of pesticides and herbicides, or where the proposed action results in the requirement to develop or amend a Spill Prevention, Control, or Countermeasures Plan.

(G) When a review of an action reveals that air emissions exceed de minimis levels or otherwise that a formal Clean Air Act conformity determination is required.

(H) Reasonable likelihood of violating any Federal, State, or local law or requirements imposed for the protection of the environment.

(I) Unresolved effect on environmentally sensitive resources, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(J) Involving effects on the quality of the environment that are likely to be highly controversial.

(K) Involving effects on the environment that are highly uncertain, involve unique or unknown risks, or are scientifically controversial.

(L) Establishes a precedent (or makes decisions in principle) for future or subsequent actions that are reasonably likely to have a future significant effect.

(M) Potential for degradation of already existing poor environmental conditions. Also, initiation of a degrading influence, activity, or effect in areas not already significantly modified from their natural condition.

(N) Introduction/employment of unproven technology.
