
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter II - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 200 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### ยง 200.4 Implementation of NEPA and related authorities.
##### etc.

(iii) If a proposed action would adversely affect "environmentally sensitive" resources, unless the impact has been resolved through another environmental process (e.g., CZMA, NHPA, CWA,) a CATEX cannot be used. Environmentally sensitive resources include:

(A) Listed or proposed Federally listed, threatened, or endangered species or their designated or proposed critical habitats.

(B) Properties listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

(C) Areas having special designation or recognition such as prime or unique agricultural lands; coastal zones; designated wilderness or wilderness study areas; wild and scenic rivers; National Historic Landmarks (designated by the Secretary of the Interior); 100-year floodplains; wetlands; sole source aquifers (potential sources of drinking water); National Wildlife Refuges; National Parks; areas of critical environmental concern; or other areas of high environmental sensitivity.

(iv) The use of a CATEX does not relieve the proponent from compliance with other statutes, such as RCRA, or consultations under the Endangered Species Act or the NHPA. Such consultations may be required to determine the applicability of the CATEX screening criteria.

(v) For those CATEXs that require documentation, a brief (one to two sentences) presentation of conclusions reached during screening should be included with the checklist. Checklists may be obtained from the Master Planner at 3700 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20011.

(2) AFRH recognizes two types of CATEX:
