
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter II - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 200 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### ยง 200.4 Implementation of NEPA and related authorities.
##### Environmental Assessment (EA).

(c)(1) An Environmental Assessment (EA) is a concise public document prepared by or on behalf of AFRH that assists AFRH in deciding whether or not there may be significant effects requiring a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement. Actions typically requiring preparation of an EA are found in appendix B to part 200.

(2) The analysis required for an EA leads either to a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) or a Notice of Intent (NOI) to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. AFRH will prepare a FONSI in accordance with 40 CFR 1508.13, if the agency determines on the basis of the EA that there are no significant environmental effects and therefore, there is no need to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. AFRH shall make the FONSI available to the affected public as specified in ยง 1506.6. Under certain limited circumstances, AFRH shall make the finding of no significant impact available for public review for 30 days before the agency makes its final determination whether to prepare an environmental impact statement and before the action may begin. The circumstances are:

(i) The proposed action is, or is closely similar to, one which normally requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement;

(ii) The nature of the proposed action is one without precedent; or

(iii) There is controversy associated with the environmental effects of the proposed action.
