
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter II - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 200 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### ยง 200.4 Implementation of NEPA and related authorities.
##### Using NEPA in decision making.

(f)(1) Compliance with NEPA and related authorities will begin at the earliest point in planning any action, when the widest reasonable range of alternatives is open for consideration.

(2) The NEPA review process will be carried out in coordination with continued planning.

(3) All personnel involved in planning actions should view NEPA review as part of effective planning, not as a mere documentation requirement.

(4) Outside agencies, State and local governments, Indian Tribes, and the public will whenever practicable be afforded reasonable opportunities to participate in the NEPA process.

(5) The results of NEPA review will be fully considered by each AFRH decision-maker before making a decision on an action subject to such review and the alternatives considered by the decision-maker will be encompassed within the range of alternatives for the action.

(6) AFRH will ensure relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses are part of the record in formal rulemaking or adjudicatory proceedings.

(7) Executives and other employees responsible for aspects of NEPA review will be held accountable for the performance of such responsibilities, through performance reviews and other administrative mechanisms.
