
# Title 38 - Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
## Chapter II - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 200 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 200 - Categorical Exclusions
##### i.e.,

A.3(b) Extensions or renewals of leases, licenses or permits (licenses to Federal entities) or succeeding leases, easements, licenses or permits whether AFRH is acting as grantor or grantee and there is no change in use of the facility.

A.3(c) Repair and alteration projects involving, but not adversely affecting, properties listed on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.

A.3(d) Repair to or replacement in kind of equipment or components in AFRH-controlled facilities without change in location, e.g., HVAC, electrical distribution systems, windows, doors or roof.

A.3(e) Disposal or other disposition of claimed or unclaimed personal property of deceased persons.

A.3(f) Supportive services that include health care and housing services, permanent housing placement, day care, nutritional services, collection of payment for services, short-term payments for rent/mortgage/utility costs, and assistance in gaining access to local, State, and Federal government benefits and services.

A.3(g) Normal personnel, fiscal, and administrative activities involving civilian personnel (recruiting, processing, paying, and records keeping).

A.3(h) Routine or minor facility maintenance, custodial, and groundskeeping activities such as window washing, lawn mowing, trash collecting, and snow removal that do not involve environmentally sensitive areas (such as eroded areas, wetlands, cultural sites, or areas with endangered/threatened species).

A.3(i) Environmental Site Assessment activities under RCRA and CERCLA;

A.3(j) Geological, geophysical, geochemical, and engineering surveys and mapping, including the establishment of survey marks;

A.3(k) Installation and operation of ambient air and noise monitoring equipment that does not include constructing or erecting towers;

A.3(l) Routine procurement of goods and services (complying with applicable procedures for sustainable or "green" procurement) to support operations and infrastructure, including routine utility services and contracts.

A.3(m) Routine movement/relocations of residents on site.

The following are categorical exclusions that require preparation of a checklist to ensure that no extraordinary circumstances exist that would require preparation of an EA or EIS. Checklists may be obtained from the Master Planner at 3700 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20011.

A.4(a) Expansion or improvement of an existing facility where all of the following conditions are met:

A.4(a)(1) The structure and proposed use are substantially in compliance with local planning and zoning and any applicable State or Federal requirements;

A.4(a)(2) The proposed use will only slightly increase the number of motor vehicles at the facility;

A.4(a)(3) The site and the scale of construction are consistent with those of existing adjacent or nearby buildings; and

A.4(a)(4) There is no evidence of environmental controversy.

A.4(b) Transfer or disposal of real property to State or local agencies for preservation or protection of wildlife conservation and historic monument purposes.

A.4(c) Disposal of fixtures, related personal property, demountable structures, and transmission lines in accordance with management requirements.

A.4(d) Disposal of properties where the size, area, topography, and zoning are similar to existing surrounding properties and/or where current and reasonable anticipated uses are or would be similar to current surrounding uses (e.g., commercial store in a commercial strip, warehouse in an urban complex, office building in downtown area, row house or vacant lot in an urban area).
