
# Title 4 - Accounts
## Chapter I - Government Accountability Office
### Subchapter A - Personnel System
#### PART 4 - EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE AND UTILIZATION
##### ยง 4.2 Performance appraisal.

(a) The GAO shall develop one or more performance appraisal systems which provide for periodic appraisals of job performance of employees; encourages employee participation in establishing performance standards; and uses the results of performance appraisal as a basis for training, rewarding, reassigning, promoting, reducing in grade, retaining, and removing employees.

(b) Each performance appraisal system shall provide for-

(1) Establishing performance standards which will, to the maximum extent feasible, permit the accurate evaluation of job performance on the basis of job-related criteria (which may include the extent of courtesy demonstrated to the public) for each GAO employee.

(2) As soon as practicable, but not later than October 1, 1981, with respect to initial appraisal periods, and thereafter at the beginning of each following appraisal period, communicating to reach GAO employee the performance standards and the critical elements of the employee's position.

(3) Annually evaluating each employee during the appraisal period on such standards.

(4) Recognizing and rewarding employees whose performance so warrants.

(5) Assisting employees in improving unacceptable performance.

(6) Reassigning, reducing in grade, or removing employees who continue to have unacceptable performance but only after an opportunity to demonstrate acceptable performance.
