
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 16 - PROCEDURES RELATING TO TAKEOVER AND RELICENSING OF LICENSED PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Applications for Projects Subject to Sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 16.10 Information to be provided by an applicant for new license: Filing requirements.
####### Information to be provided by an applicant who is an existing licensee.

(b)An existing licensee that applies for a new license must provide:

(1) The information specified in paragraph (a).

(2) A statement of measures taken or planned by the licensee to ensure safe management, operation, and maintenance of the project, including:

(i) A description of existing and planned operation of the project during flood conditions;

(ii) A discussion of any warning devices used to ensure downstream public safety;

(iii) A discussion of any proposed changes to the operation of the project or downstream development that might affect the existing Emergency Action Plan, as described in subpart C of part 12 of this chapter, on file with the Commission;

(iv) A description of existing and planned monitoring devices to detect structural movement or stress, seepage, uplift, equipment failure, or water conduit failure, including a description of the maintenance and monitoring programs used or planned in conjunction with the devices; and

(v) A discussion of the project's employee safety and public safety record, including the number of lost-time accidents involving employees and the record of injury or death to the public within the project boundary.

(3) A description of the current operation of the project, including any constraints that might affect the manner in which the project is operated.

(4) A discussion of the history of the project and record of programs to upgrade the operation and maintenance of the project.

(5) A summary of any generation lost at the project over the last five years because of unscheduled outages, including the cause, duration, and corrective action taken.

(6) A discussion of the licensee's record of compliance with the terms and conditions of the existing license, including a list of all incidents of noncompliance, their disposition, and any documentation relating to each incident.

(7) A discussion of any actions taken by the existing licensee related to the project which affect the public.

(8) A summary of the ownership and operating expenses that would be reduced if the project license were transferred from the existing licensee.

(9) A statement of annual fees paid under Part I of the Federal Power Act for the use of any Federal or Indian lands included within the project boundary.
