
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 24 - DECLARATION OF INTENTION
##### ยง 24.1 Filing.
###### http://www.ferc.gov.

A declaration of intention under the provisions of section 23(b) of the Act shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site atThe declaration shall give the name and post office address of the person to whom correspondence in regard to it shall be addressed, and shall be accompanied by:

(a) A brief description of the proposed project and its purposes, including such data as maximum height of the dams, a storage capacity curve of the reservoir or reservoirs showing the maximum, average, and minimum operating pool levels, the initial and ultimate installed capacity of the project, the rated horsepower and head on the turbines, and a curve of turbine discharge versus output at average and minimum operating heads.

(b)(1) A general map (one tracing and three prints) of any convenient size and scale, showing the stream or streams to be utilized and the approximate location and the general plan of the project.

(2) Also a detailed map of the proposed project area showing all Federal lands, and lands owned by States, if any, occupied by the project.

(3) A profile of the river within the vicinity of the project showing the location of the proposed project and any existing improvements in the river.

(4) A duration curve and hydrograph for the natural and proposed regulated flows at the dam site. Furnish references to the published stream flow records used and submit copies of any unpublished records used in preparation of these curves.

(c) (1) A definite statement of the proposed method of utilizing storage or pondage seasonally, weekly and daily, during periods of low and normal flows after the plant is in operation and the system load has grown to the extent that the capacity of the plant is required to meet the load. For example, furnish:

(i) Hydrographs covering a 10-day low water period showing the natural flow of the stream and the effect thereon caused by operations of the proposed power plant:

(ii) Similar hydrographs covering a 10-day period during which the discharge of the stream approximates average recorded yearly flow, and

(iii) Similar hydrographs covering a low water year using average monthly flows.

(2) A system load curve, both daily and monthly, and the position on the load curve that the proposed project would have occupied had it been in operation.

(3) A proposed annual rule of operation for the storage reservoir or reservoirs.
