
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 34 - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF THE ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES OR THE ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES
##### ยง 34.3 Contents of application for issuance of securities.

Each application to the Commission for authority to issue securities shall contain the information specified in this section. In lieu of filing the information required in paragraphs (e), (i) and (j) of this section, a specific reference may be made to the portion of the registration statement filed under ยง 34.4(f), which includes the information required in these paragraphs.

(a) The official name of the applicant and address of its principal business office.

(b) The State in which the utility is incorporated, the date of incorporation, and each State in which it operates.

(c) The name, address and telephone number of a person within the utility authorized to receive notices and communications with respect to the application.

(d) The date by which Commission action is requested.

(e) A full description of the securities proposed to be issued, including:

(1) Type and nature of securities;

(2) Amount of securities (par or stated value and number of units);

(3) Interest or dividend rate, if any;

(4) Dates of issuance and maturity;

(5) Institutional rating of the securities-or if the securities are not rated, an explanation as to why they are not rated, and if the securities will be rated, an estimate of the rating; and

(6) Any stock exchange on which the securities will be listed.

(f) The purpose for which the securities for which application is made are to be issued:

(1) If the purpose of such issuance is the construction, completion, extension, or improvement of facilities, describe in reasonable detail the construction program for which the funds were or are to be used.

(2) If the purpose for such issuance is for the refunding of obligations, describe in detail the obligations to be refunded, including the character, principal amounts, applicable discount or premium, dates of issuance and maturity, and all other material facts concerning such obligations.

(3) If the purpose for such issuance is for other than construction or refunding, explain such other purpose(s) in detail.

(g) A statement as to whether or not any application with respect to the transaction or any part thereof is required to be filed with any State regulatory body.

(h) A detailed statement of the facts relied upon by the applicant to show that the issuance:

(1) Is for some lawful object, within the corporate purposes of the applicant and compatible with the public interest, is necessary or appropriate for or consistent with the proper performances by the applicant of service as a public utility and will not impair its ability to perform that service, and

(2) Is reasonably necessary or appropriate for such purposes.

(i) A detailed statement of the bond indenture(s) or other limitations on interest and dividend coverage, and the effects of such limitations on the issuance of additional debt or equity securities.

(j) A brief summary of any rate changes which were made effective during the period for which financial statements are submitted or which became or will become effective after the period for which statements are submitted.
