
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Natural Gas Act
###### ยง 2.78 Utilization and conservation of natural resources - natural gas.

(a)(1) The national interests in the development and utilization of natural gas resources throughout the United States will be served by recognition and implementation of the following priority-of-service categories for use during periods of curtailed deliveries by jurisdictional pipeline companies:

(i) Residential, small commercial (less than 50 Mcf on a peak day).

(ii) Large commercial requirements (50 Mcf or more on a peak day), firm industrial requirements for plant protection, feedstock and process needs, and pipeline customer storage injection requirements.

(iii) All industrial requirements not specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), (viii), or (ix) of this section.

(iv) Firm industrial requirements for boiler fuel use at less than 3,000 Mcf per day, but more than 1,500 Mcf per day, where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(v) Firm industrial requirements for large volume (3,000 Mcf or more per day) boiler fuel use where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(vi) Interruptible requirements of more than 300 Mcf per day, but less than 1,500 Mcf per day, where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(vii) Interruptible requirements of intermediate volumes (from 1,500 Mcf per day through 3,000 Mcf per day), where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(viii) Interruptible requirements of more than 3,000 Mcf per day, but less than 10,000 Mcf per day, where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(ix) Interruptible requirements of more than 10,000 Mcf per day, where alternate fuel capabilities can meet such requirements.

(2) The priorities-of-deliveries set forth above will be applied to the deliveries of all jurisdictional pipeline companies during periods of curtailment on each company's system; except, however, that, upon a finding of extraordinary circumstances after hearing initiated by a petition filed under ยง 385.207 of this chapter, exceptions to those priorities may be permitted.

(3) The above list of priorities requires the full curtailment of the lower priority category volumes to be accomplished before curtailment of any higher priority volumes is commenced. Additionally, the above list requires both the direct and indirect customers of the pipeline that use gas for similar purposes to be placed in the same category of priority.

(4) The tariffs filed with this Commission should contain provisions that will reflect sufficient flexibility to permit pipeline companies to respond to emergency situations (including environmental emergencies) during periods of curtailment where supplemental deliveries are required to forestall irreparable injury to life or property.

(b) Request for relief from curtailment shall be filed under ยง 385.1501 of this chapter. Those petitions shall use the priorities set forth in (paragraph (a)(1) of this section) above, the definitions contained in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and shall contain the following minimal information:

(1) The specific amount of natural gas deliveries requested on peak day and monthly basis, and the type of contract under which the deliveries would be made.

(2) The estimated duration of the relief requested.

(3) A breakdown of all natural gas requirements on peak day and monthly bases at the plant site by specific end-uses.

(4) The specific end-uses to which the natural gas requested will be utilized and should also reflect the scheduling within each particular end-use with and without the relief requested.

(5) The estimated peak day and monthly volumes of natural gas which would be available with and without the relief requested from all sources of supply for the period specified in the request.

(6) A description of existing alternate fuel capabilities on peak day and monthly bases broken down by end-uses as shown in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(7) For the alternate fuels shown in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, provide a description of the existing storage facilities and the amount of present fuel inventory, names and addresses of existing alternate fuel suppliers, and anticipated delivery schedules for the period for which relief is sought.

(8) The current price per million Btu for natural gas supplies and alternate fuels supplies.

(9) A description of efforts to secure natural gas and alternate fuels, including documentation of contacts with the Federal Energy Office and any state or local fuel allocation agencies or public utility commission.

(10) A description of all fuel conservation activities undertaken in the facility for which relief is sought.

(11) If petitioner is a local natural gas distributor, a description of the currently effective curtailment program and details regarding any flexibility which may be available by effectuating additional curtailment to its existing industrial customers. The distributor should also provide a breakdown of the estimated disposition of its natural gas estimated to be available by end-use priorities established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the period for which relief is sought.

(c) When used in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following terms will be defined as follows:
