
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### 6

() The information required in paragraphs (b), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section and in ยง 35.12(b)(2).

(C) Data shall be reconciled with the utility's most recent FERC Form 1. If the utility has not yet submitted Form 1 for the Test Period, the utility shall submit the relevant Form 1 pages in draft form.

(D) The utility may make pro forma adjustments for post-Test Period changes that occur before the proposed effective date and that are known and measurable at the time of filing. The utility shall provide a narrative statement explaining all pro forma adjustments.

(E) If the utility models its filing in whole or in part on retail rate decisions or settlements, the utility must provide detailed calculations and a narrative statement showing how all retail rate treatments are factored into the cost of service.

(F) If the Commission sets the filing for hearing, the Commission will allow the company a specific time period in which to file testimony, exhibits, and supplemental workpapers to complete its case-in-chief. While not required under this subpart, a utility may elect to submit Statements AA through BM for the Test Period in accord with the requirements of paragraphs (d), (g) and (h) of this section.
