
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AD-Cost of plant.

(4)Statement AD is a statement of the original cost of total electric plant in service according to functional classification for Period I and Period II. If the plant functions and subfunctions for Period I and Period II are different, the utility shall explain and justify the differences.

(i) For each separately identified function and subfunction of production plant or transmission plant, the utility shall state the original cost as of the beginning of the first month and the end of each month of both Period I and Period II, with an average of the thirteen balances for each period. If any of the Period I or Period II thirteen monthly balances is not available or is unrepresentative of the current plan of the utility for plant in service, the utility shall provide an explanation of the relevant circumstances.

(ii) For each separately identified function and subfunction of plant other than production or transmission, the utility shall state the original cost as of the beginning and the end of both Period I and Period II, with an average of the beginning and end balances for each period. If any of the Period I or Period II balances is not available or is unrepresentative of the current plan of the utility for plant in service, the utility shall provide an explanation of the relevant circumstances.

(iii) The utility shall show the electric plant in service in accordance with each of the following five major functional classifications:

(A) Production;

(B) Transmission;

(C) Distribution;

(D) General and Intangible; and

(E) Common and Other.

(iv) To the extent feasible, the utility shall show completed construction not classified in accordance with clause (iii) in accordance with tentative classification to major functional accounts. If this is not feasible, the utility shall describe such facilities as other plant under clause (iii)(E).
