
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### high voltage overhead lines.

(B) Transmission plant categories shall be chosen to reflect the extent to which the facilities are proposed to be allocated on a common basis among all or specific segments of utility services. For descriptive purposes, plant may also be categorized according to accounting or engineering terminology, such asThe utility shall provide brief descriptive transmission category titles and explain the basis for the titles. If a utility allocates all transmission plant among utility services on the basis of a single set of allocation data, the utility may show original cost in total without subfunctionalization.

(C) Distribution plant categories shall be selected according to engineering or use characteristics meaningful for allocations or assignments to wholesale services such as substations, overhead lines, meters, or non-wholesale. The utility shall provide brief descriptive distribution category titles and shall explain the basis for the titles.

(D) If the utility divides any general, intangible, common, and other plant functional classifications into subfunctional categories, the subfunctional categories shall be chosen to group together facilities that share a common basis for allocation between wholesale and other electric services. The utility shall provide a brief descriptive title for each general and intangible subfunctional category, and for each common and other subfunctional category, with an explanation of the basis of each category selection. A utility need not divide the functional classifications of plant into subfunctional categories if these functions of plant are allocated in Statement BK on the basis of utility labor expenses.

(E) A separate category shall be provided for each specific assignment of plant reported in Statement BE. Such assignments are applicable principally but not necessarily exclusively to distribution facilities. The utility shall provide brief descriptive titles consistent with Statement BE.

(F) A separate category shall be provided for each exclusive-use commitment of major power supply facilities as required to be reported at Statement BF. The utility shall provide brief descriptive titles consistent with Statement BF.
