
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AE-Accumulated depreciation and amortization.

(5)Statement AE is a statement of the accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization of electric plant for Period I and Period II, provided according to major functional classifications selected by the utility in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) and divided into the subfunctional categories selected by the utility in Statement AD, to the extent that subfunctionalized data are available.

(i) For each function and subfunction of electric production and transmission plant in service identified in Statement AD, the utility shall set forth the accumulated depreciation and amortization as of the beginning of the first month and the end of each month of both Period I and Period II. The utility shall state an average for each period computed as the average of the thirteen balances.

(ii) For each function and subfunction of electric plant in service other than production or transmission, identified in Statement AD, the utility shall state the accumulated depreciation and amortization as of the beginning and the end of Period I and Period II, with an average of the beginning and end balances for each period.

(iii) If any of the Period I or Period II balances is not available or is unrepresentative of the current plan of the utility for depreciation reserves, the utility shall provide an explanation of the relevant circumstances.

(iv) If accumulated depreciation and amortization data are not available for any subfunction selected in Statement AD, the utility shall:

(A) Provide a comparison of the current depreciation rate of the major functional classification and the depreciation rate estimated to be appropriate to the subfunctional category; and

(B) State and explain the estimation techniques which the utility proposes to utilize in the absence of subfunctional data, such as the proration of accumulated depreciation and amortization data among the subfunctional categories according to the data for electric plant in service in Statement AD. If any of the proposed estimation techniques require data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in paragraph (h) of this section, the utility shall supply the necessary data in Statement AE.
