
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AF-Specified deferred credits.

(6)Statement AF consists of balances of specified accounts and items which are to be considered in the determination of the net original cost rate base. All required balances are to be stated as of the beginning and end of both Period I and Period II, with an average of the beginning and end balances for each period. If any of the Period I and Period II balances is not available or is unrepresentative of the current operating plan of the utility, the utility shall include an explanation of the relevant circumstances. If subaccounts are maintained to reflect differences in ratemaking treatment among regulatory authorities that have jurisdiction, balances shall be provided in accordance with such subaccounts, with detailed explanations of the bases upon which the subaccounts were established and are maintained. The balances of deferred credits required to be filed in this statement are described in paragraph (h)(6) (i) through (v) of this section. All references to numbered accounts refer to the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts, 18 CFR part 101.

(i) The utility shall state total electric balances for accumulated deferred investment tax credits Account 255, and shall separate the credits into balances applicable to pre-1971 and post-1970 qualifying property additions. If the utility maintains records to show Account 255 component balances according to the major functional classifications identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide the component balances by function. If the data are not available by function, the utility shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AF the necessary data, such as historical functional patterns of plant additions eligible for the tax credits. The utility shall state whether the Internal Revenue Code General Rule, ยง 46(f)(1), is applicable with respect to restrictions on credit treatment for ratemaking purposes. If the General Rule is not applicable, the utility shall state which election it has made with respect to special rules for ratable or immediate flow-through for ratemaking purposes.

(ii) The utility shall state the total electric component balances for accumulated deferred income tax Account 281 pertaining to accelerated amortization property. The utility shall show separate components for defense, pollution control, and other facilities. The utility shall show balances for each component and totaled for the electric utility department. If the utility maintains records to show Account 281 component balances according to the major functional classifications identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide such component balances. If data are not available by function, the utility shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AF the necessary data.

(iii) The utility shall state the total electric component balances for accumulated deferred income tax Account 282 pertaining to electric utility property other than accelerated amortization property. The utility shall itemize the balances in Account 282, to the extent data are available, in detail sufficient to identify the specific major properties involved and shall list the balances according to the accounting entries, such as liberalized depreciation, for which interperiod tax allocation was used and included in this account. Component balances shall be shown individually and in total for the electric utility department. If the utility maintains records to show account 282 component balances according to the major functional classifications identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide such component balances by function. If the data are not available by function, the utility shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AF the necessary data, such as historical functional patterns of plant additions.

(iv) The utility shall state the total electric component balances for accumulated deferred income tax Account 283 pertaining to interperiod income tax allocations not related to property. The utility shall itemize in detail balances in Account 283, to the extent data are available, and shall list the balances according to the accounting entries for which interperiod tax allocation was used and included in this account. Component balances shall be shown individually and in total for the electric utility department. If the utility maintains records to show Account 283 component balances according to the major functional classifications identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide such component balances by function. If the data are not available by function, the utility shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the filing shall supply in Statement AF the necessary data.

(v) The utility shall show electric utility balances for every other item that the utility believes should be included in Statement AF. The utility shall explain the reasons for inclusion of each item.
