
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AG-Specified plant accounts (other than plant in service) and deferred debits.

(7)Statement AG is a statement of balances of specified accounts and items that are to be considered in the determination of the net original cost rate base. Except as prescribed in clause (ii), the utility shall state all required balances as of the beginning and the end of Period I and Period II, with an average of the beginning and end balances for each period. If any of the Period I or Period II balances is not available or is unrepresentative of the current operating plan of the utility, the utility shall provide a full explanation of the relevant circumstances. If subaccounts are maintained to reflect differences in ratemaking treatment among regulatory authorities having jurisdiction, the utility shall provide balances in accordance with such subaccounts, with detailed explanations of the bases upon which the subaccounts were established and are maintained. The balances required to be submitted under Statement AG are described in clauses (7)(i) through (vi).

(i) For each separately identified major functional classification selected by the utility in Statement AD, the utility shall state the electric utility land and land rights balances for electric plant held for future use in account 105. If itemized in detail, balances shall be totaled for each major functional classification.

(ii) The utility shall state the electric utility component balances in Accounts 107 and 120.1, individually and in total, for each item of construction work in progress for pollution control facilities, fuel conversion facilities, or any other facilities that qualify for inclusion in rate base under ยง 35.26. The utility shall state such balances for each major functional and subfunctional classification under Statement AD as of the beginning of the first month and the end of each month of Period I and Period II with an average of the 13 balances for each period.

(iii) For each major functional classification under Statement AD and with respect to property otherwise includable in plant in service, the utility shall state the balances for extraordinary property losses Account 182. If itemized in detail, balances shall be totaled for each major functional classification. The utility shall provide information about Commission authorization for any loss included in Account 182 and shall state when the loss was claimed for tax purposes.

(iv) The utility shall state the total electric component balances for accumulated deferred income taxes Account 190. The component balances in Account 190 shall be itemized in detail and listed according to the accounting entries for which interperiod tax allocation was used. Component balances shall be shown individually and in total for the electric utility department. If the utility maintains records to show Account 190 component balances according to the major functional classifications identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide such component balances by function. If the data are not available by function, the filing utility shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AG the necessary data.

(v) Balances shall be shown for every other item that the utility believes should be included in Statement AG. The utility shall provide support for inclusion of each item, and a brief descriptive title for each such item.
