
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### other

(A) Total production operation and maintenance expenses shall be segregated into energy, demand, and other components. The utility shall specifically state and support its criteria for classifications between energy and demand, and for use of the productionclassification, such as specific assignments related to sales from particular generating units.

(B) Fuel expense for cost of service purposes shall be the total as-burned expense incurred. If the utility defers a portion of such expense for accounting purposes, the deferral amount shall be separately stated and accompanied by material that shows computational detail in support of such amount. If claimed nuclear fuel expense reflects a change in the estimated net salvage value of nuclear fuel, the utility shall show the amounts involved and explain the relevant circumstances.

(C) If the amount of production fuel expense is significantly affected by abnormal Period I water availability for hydroelectric generation, the utility shall explain how water availability was taken into account in developing projected Period II production fuel expenses.

(iii) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall report operation and maintenance expenses attributable to the transmission and distribution functions according to appropriate account numbers. If Period II transmission and distribution plant data are not provided by subfunctional category in Statement AD, the utility need only provide for Period II total operation and maintenance expenses for each function.

(iv) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall report in total for each period, operation and maintenance expenses incurred under each of the categories of customer accounting, customer service and information, and sales.

(v) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall itemize administrative and general expenses by groups that are directly assignable, such as regulatory Commission expenses, or that are related to selected plant or expense items for which an allocation to wholesale services is independently determinable, such as items related to labor expense or to a category of production plant in service. Administrative and general expenses shall include a detailed itemization of the general advertising Account 930.1 and the miscellaneous general expenses Account 930.2. If Account 930 data are not projected on a detailed basis for Period II, the utility shall provide its best estimate of the Account 930.1 expense items and a descriptive list of expense items anticipated as miscellaneous general expenses in Account 930.2. Where applicable, separate items shall be shown for general plant maintenance, and for common and other plant maintenance.

(vi) In addition to annual production data for Period I and Period II, the utility shall provide monthly expense data by accounts for fuel in Accounts 501, 518, and 547 and purchased power in Account 555. For each type of transaction, such as firm power or economy interchange power, monthly purchased power expense data shall be subtotaled separately for interchange receipts and deliveries. For monthly fuel Accounts 501, 518, and 547, and for each type of purchased power transaction, the monthly data shall identify components to be claimed under the fuel adjustment clause of the utility.
