
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AJ-Depreciation and amortization expenses.

(10)Statement AJ consists of statements of depreciation and amortization expenses for Period I and Period II.

(i) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall show the depreciation and amortization expenses and the depreciable plant balances of the filing utility, in accordance with major functional classifications selected by the utility in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4).

(ii) The utility shall divide the major functional classifications of depreciation and amortization expenses shown in clause (i) into the subfunctional categories selected by the utility for electric plant in service in Statement AD, to the extent such data are available.

(iii) If depreciation and amortization expense data are not available for any subfunctional category selected in Statement AD, the utility shall:

(A) Provide a comparison of the current depreciation rate of the major functional classification and the depreciation rate estimated to be appropriate to the subfunctional category; and

(B) State and explain the estimation techniques that the utility utilized in developing each estimated subfunctional depreciation rate. If utilization of such estimation techniques requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply such data in Statement AJ.

(iv) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall show the annual depreciation rate applicable to each function and subfunction for which depreciation expense is reported. The utility shall indicate the bases upon which the depreciation rates were established. If the depreciation rates used for Period I or Period II data differ from those employed to support the utility's prior approved jurisdictional electric rate, the utility shall include in or append to Statement AJ detailed studies in support of such changes. These detailed studies shall include:

(A) Copies of any reports or analyses prepared by any independent consultant or utility personnel to support the proposed depreciation rates; and

(B) A detailed capital recovery study showing by primary account the depreciation base, accumulated provision for depreciation, cost of removal, net salvage, estimated service life, attained age of survivors, accrual rate, and annual depreciation expense.
