
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AP-Federal income tax deductions-interest.

(16)Statement AP is a statement of electric utility interest charges for Period I and Period II. For each period, the utility shall state the total electric utility interest in terms of three or more component items described in clauses (i) through (iv).

(i) The utility shall state the allowance for borrowed funds used for electric utility construction Account 432 as a separate component. The utility shall show supporting detail, including computation of the amounts on the basis of AFUDC rates claimed in Statement AO.

(ii) The utility shall state interest for borrowed funds used for electric utility construction Account 431 as a separate component. If applicable, the utility shall also show all elements of Account 431 related to purposes other than electric utility construction, with detailed supporting material, such as a computation of allocations between electric and other utility departments with explanatory material to support the bases of such allocations.

(iii) The utility shall state the interest on long-term debt required for electric rate base investment as a separate component. The interest amount shall be consistent with that shown and utilized in Statement BK under paragraph (h)(36) of this section.

(iv) The utility shall show other interest items appropriate in the determination of net taxable income allocable to the wholesale services at issue. The utility shall describe and support each item and shall accompany each item with a statement of the basis on which the item is allocable to the wholesale services. The utility shall also list a short descriptive title for each item.
