
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement AQ-Federal income tax deductions-other than interest.

(17)Statement AQ is a statement of other deductions from net operating income before Federal income taxes, for Period I and Period II, which deductions are appropriate in determining the net taxable income allocable to the wholesale services subject to the changed rate. The utility shall show unallowable deductions as negative entries in this statement. The utility shall itemize deductions in accordance with clause (i) through (iii) and individually identify each by a brief descriptive title.

(i) The utility shall report, as a separate component of this statement, the difference between tax and book depreciation, in total, or in individual amounts based on the Internal Revenue Code provisions that permit the utility to use various methods of computing depreciation for tax purposes, such as liberalized depreciation or the asset depreciation range. If the utility reports the differences in total only, it shall list the specific Internal Revenue Code provisions that result in the difference.

(ii) The utility shall state taxes and pensions capitalized as a separate component.

(iii) The utility shall describe and support other deduction items appropriate in the determination of net taxable income allocable to the wholesale services. Each item shall be accompanied by a brief explanation of the basis on which the item is allocable to the wholesale services.
