
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### see

(i) For each major function of plant identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall state the electric utility component adjustment for the Federal portions of the provision for deferred income tax Account 410.1. If the data are not available by function, the utility shall state the amounts for the total electric utility and shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balances obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AR the necessary data. The utility shall provide the adjustment amounts for total electric and, to the extent available for each such major functional component, accompanied by summary totals segregated in accordance with related balance sheet Accounts 281, 282, 283, and 190 [Statements AF and AG]. Account 190 items require a negative sign for entries in Statement AR. The utility shall identify the summarized items by account number.

(ii) The utility shall provide for the Federal portions of the provision for deferred income tax-credit Account 411.1 the data required by clause (i) for Account 410.1.

(iii) For each major functional classification of plant identified in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4), the utility shall provide the electric utility component for investment tax credits generated for Period I and Period II, credits utilized for each period, and the allocations to current income for each period. If the data are not available by function, the utility shall state the amounts for total electric utility and shall describe the procedure by which the utility believes it can reasonably estimate the portion of the total electric balances for each major functional classification. The utility may show by function the component balance obtained by applying the procedure. If such estimation requires data that are not provided elsewhere in the cost of service statements in this paragraph, the utility shall supply in Statement AR the necessary data. If itemized in detail, balances shall be subtotaled for each major function, and totaled for the electric utility department. Detailed data shall be consistent with that provided in Statement AF under paragraph (h)(6) of this section.

(iv) The utility shall list and designate as other adjustment items any additional Federal income tax adjustments and shall provide a brief descriptive title for each item. The utility shall explain the reasons for inclusion of each item, and shall indicate the basis on which each will be assigned or allocated to the wholesale services subject to the changed rate and to the other electric utility services.
