
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BA-Wholesale customer rate groups.

(26)(i) Statement BA is a list of wholesale customers by group for the purpose of:

(A) Allocating the allowable costs of the utility to such customer groups on the basis of electric utility services rendered; and

(B) Comparing proposed revenues from each customer group with the cost of service as allocated to that group.

(ii) The utility shall limit the number of wholesale customer groups listed to the minimum required under the following criteria:

(A) At least one customer group shall be specified for each separate wholesale rate subject to the changed rate filing.

(B) In general, all customers proposed to be served on the same rate shall be included in a common group. If the utility believes that there are significant differences in services provided under the same rate, the utility shall subdivide the common group served by the same rate into separate customer groups characterized by the type of service provided each group and shall demonstrate whether the common rate is cost-based by means of cost-justification for each service group. Certain customer groupings, such as cooperatives or municipals, may also be utilized to facilitate purchaser evaluations of the changed rate.

(C) In all cases, the utility shall select customer groupings on a basis consistent with rate design information provided in Statement BL under paragraph (h)(37) of this section.

(iii) The utility shall enumerate all wholesale customer rate groups, together with a brief descriptive title for each group. For example:
