
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BB-Allocation demand and capability data.

(27)Statement BB is a statement of electric utility demand and capability data for Period I and Period II to be considered as a basis for allocating related costs to the wholesale services subject to the changed rate.

(i) For each month of Period I and Period II, with an average for each period, the utility shall show the maximum peak firm kilowatt demand on the power supply system of the utility, and the kilowatt demands of the wholesale services that coincide with the system monthly maximum power supply demand, including for Period I the date and hour for such coincidental peak demands. The utility shall state these kilowatt demands in terms of 60-minute intervals or other intervals adjusted to the equivalent of 60 minutes. The utility shall not include in the data the demands associated with interruptible power supply services, firm or nonfirm transmission wheeling services, or demands associated with other services the revenues from which are shown as revenue credits in Statement AU under paragraph (h)(21). The utility shall provide wholesale service demand data as follows:

(A) The wholesale service data for each individual customer delivery point or set of delivery points that constitutes an individual wholesale customer billing unit shall include demands at delivery. The individual customer wholesale service data shall be summarized and subtotaled in accordance with Statement BA customer groupings.

(B) The data supplied for each wholesale customer group under clause (A) shall be adjusted for losses to reflect demand at the power supply level. The data shall be totaled to show total customer group demand at power supply level for each month of Period I and Period II.

(ii) To the extent such data are available, the utility shall state Period I and Period II monthly maximum demand data for interruptible power supply services, firm wheeling services, and nonfirm wheeling services. The utility shall also provide, to the extent data are available, firm wheeling demand data for any of the 60-minute periods that coincide with the times of power supply peak demands shown under clause (i). The utility shall indicate the basis of all demands, such as metered demands or contract demands, reported under this clause. For interruptible services, the utility shall provide a description of the conditions under which service may be interrupted or curtailed. The utility shall include available information on actual interruptions or curtailments during a three-year period that includes Period I. If any of the wholesale rates at issue are for interruptible or curtailable service, the utility shall provide any demand data specifically relevant to such service.

(iii) If a utility establishes plant categories in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) of this section for the purpose of supporting wholesale rates for firm power supply services with special characteristics, such as base load, intermediate, or peaking, the utility shall provide in Statement BB the demand data required by clause (i) in total and in separate corresponding demand values consistent with the service characteristics. Corresponding values shall be stated for the system demand of the utility, and for each applicable wholesale service group.

(iv) If a utility establishes plant categories in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) of this section for the purpose of supporting wholesale rates for nonfirm power supply services, such as capacity sales, the utility shall include in Statement BB for each month of Period I and Period II the monthly capability data relied on by the utility in developing costs allocable to such rates, with an explanation of the underlying cost allocation rationale.

(v) If a utility establishes production plant categories in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) of this section for the purpose of supporting wholesale rates based on specialized ratemaking theories such as marginal cost pricing, time-of-day pricing, or base, intermediate, and peaking characteristics, the utility shall include in Statement BB all demand and capability data relied on by the utility in developing support on a cost of service basis, with appropriate explanatory material.

(vi) For each month of Period I and Period II, the utility shall provide any additional demand data that the utility believes to be relevant to the allocation of electric utility costs to the wholesale services at issue. The utility shall fully support all such data and shall explain the rationale and the specific application proposed.

(vii) Based upon information reported in Statements BB and BC, the utility shall list selected months that are normally the months of greatest significance in determining the need of the utility for power supply capability throughout the year. All twelve months may be selected, if appropriate. In its selection, the utility shall take into account any effects of local weather seasons and, particularly, the extent to which peak demands may tend to be similar in magnitude in two or more months of a weather season. The utility shall explain the reasons for the selections and describe the significance for the selections of seasonal variations in the weather.
