
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BD-Allocation energy and supporting data.

(29)Statement BD is a statement of electric utility energy data for Period I and Period II to be considered as bases for allocating related costs to the wholesale services subject to the changed rate.

(i) For each month of Period I and Period II, and as totaled for the twelve months of each period, the utility shall show the megawatt-hours of firm power supply energy required by the system of the utility and the megawatt-hour energy requirements of the wholesale customer groups whose services will be subject to the changed rate. The wholesale service data for each individual customer delivery point or set of delivery points that constitutes an individual wholesale customer billing unit shall include megawatt-hours at delivery. The utility shall summarize and subtotal these individual customer data in accordance with Statement BA customer groupings under paragraph (h)(26). The utility shall show a loss adjustment for each wholesale customer group to reflect energy at the power supply level. The utility shall total the data to show total customer group energy requirements at power supply level for each month of Period I and Period II.

(ii) Data provided under clause (i) shall not include energy associated with interruptible or curtailable services, or energy associated with other services, the revenues from which are shown as revenue credits in Statement AU under paragraph (h)(21) of this section. The utility shall separately state Period I and Period II monthly and total energy data for any such services provided by the utility. If any of the proposed wholesale rates at issue are for interruptible or curtailable service, the utility shall provide descriptive material and energy data specifically relevant to such services.

(iii) If a utility selects subfunctional categories in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) of this section for the purpose of supporting any changed wholesale rate for firm power supply services with special characteristics, such as base load, intermediate, and peaking services, the utility shall separate the energy data required by clause (i) into corresponding energy values consistent with the service characteristics and consistent with energy-related expense categories utilized in Statement AH under paragraph (h)(8) of this section. The utility shall state the corresponding values for the utility's system energy and for each applicable wholesale service group.

(iv) If a utility establishes plant categories in Statement AD under paragraph (h)(4) of this section for the purpose of supporting any changed wholesale rate for nonfirm production services, or the changed wholesale rate based on specialized ratemaking theories [see paragraph (h)(27)(v) of this section], the utility shall include in Statement BD all energy data relied on by the utility in developing the support on a cost of service basis and relevant explanatory material. Energy data provided under this clause shall be consistent with related expense categories utilized in Statement AH under paragraph (h)(8) of this section.

(v) For each month of Period I and Period II, and as totaled for the twelve months of each period, the utility shall show the megawatt-hours generated, itemized in accordance with Statement AD production subfunctional categories, and the megawatt-hours purchased or interchanged, itemized to show each type of transaction, such as firm energy or economy interchanged energy. The utility shall quantitatively reconcile such data with the system allocation energy reported in this statement, and with energy data underlying the fuel and purchased power expense reported in Statement AH.
