
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BF-Exclusive-use commitments of major power supply facilities.

(31)Statement BF is a statement describing and justifying the commitment to exclusive-use for particular services of all or a stated portion of electric utility generation units or plants, or major transmission facilities.

(i) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall list each transaction in which all or a stated portion of the output of a specified filing utility-owned generating unit or group of units was committed exclusively to a particular customer or group of customers, or to a power pool or similar power supply entity. For each such transaction, the utility shall provide the following information:

(A) Brief descriptive title for each commitment;

(B) Name of plant and unit designation;

(C) Name of the purchaser or power pool or other similar power supply entity;

(D) Duration of the transaction;

(E) Basis of rates or charges, stated in terms of whether a transaction reflects marginal, incremental, or fully distributed costs, the specific overall and common equity rates of return included in costs, provided on both a claimed and earned basis to the extent such information is available, the approximate date of the cost analysis on which the rates and charges were based, and any other considerations significant to the transaction;

(F) Revenue received for each month of Period I and Period II or, if applicable, monthly quantities of power and energy received or available from power pools as consideration for commitment to a pool; and

(G) Proposed treatment in the cost of service determinations for the wholesale services at issue. For example, a credit of revenue to the total electric cost of service, in Statement AU under paragraph (h)(21), could be proposed to account for unit capacity sales based upon incremental capital costs. The utility shall include explanatory material and support for the proposed procedures.

(ii) For Period I and Period II, the utility shall list each transaction in which all, or a portion, of a major transmission facility owned by the filing utility was committed exclusively to a particular customer or group of customers. For each such transaction, the utility shall provide information similar to that required by clause (i).
