
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BG-Revenue data to reflect changed rates.

(32)Statement BG is a statement of revenues for Period I and Period II, including those under the changed rate for the wholesale services at issue.

(i) For each month of Period I and Period II, and in total for each of the two periods, the utility shall show all billing determinants and metered quantities for each delivery point or set of delivery points that constitutes an individual wholesale customer billing unit, and the result of applying each specific rate component to the billing determinants for each billing unit stated with the total of the computed monthly bill for the customer. If the rates include a fuel clause, the utility shall compute and total the revenues under the fuel clause to reflect fuel costs incurred during each month of Period I and Period II. That is, the fuel clause revenues for the first month of Period I shall reflect fuel costs incurred for that month, and so on for each month of Period I and Period II. In computing fuel clause revenues, the utility shall determine fuel cost according to ยง 35.14 of this chapter.

(ii) If the form of the proposed fuel clause would produce revenues different from those computed in accordance with clause (i), the utility shall separately compute and state such fuel clause revenues for each customer for each month of Period I and Period II.

(iii) The utility shall summarize separately revenue data computed in accordance with clauses (i) and (ii) above for each month and in total for Period I and Period II, in accordance with wholesale rate groups specified in Statement BA under paragraph (h)(26) of this section. The utility shall show total electric department revenues for each period to include revenues under the changed rate for all such wholesale customer rate groups.

(iv) For Period I and as estimated for Period II, the utility shall summarize all billing determinants and revenues received from interruptible or curtailable services. Billing determinants and revenue data shall be consistent with interruptible demand and energy data in Statements BB and BD. The utility shall include an explanation of the extent to which interruptible or curtailable service revenues are or are not included in revenue credits in Statement AU under paragraph (h)(21) of this section.
