
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BI-Fuel cost adjustment factors.

(34)Statement BI is a statement of monthly fuel cost adjustment factors under the changed rate and under the present rates, for Period I and Period II.

(i) If the changed rate schedule embodies a fuel cost adjustment clause, the utility shall show detailed derivations of fuel cost adjustment factors computed to reflect fuel cost incurred during each month of Period I and Period II. Fuel cost adjustment factors are those required for revenue determinations in accordance with paragraph (h)(32)(i) of Statement BG.

(ii) If additional proposed fuel clause revenue data are reported in accordance with paragraph (h)(32)(ii) of Statement BG, the utility shall show detailed derivation of applicable monthly fuel adjustment factors.

(iii) If the present rate includes a fuel cost adjustment change, the utility shall show detailed derivations of fuel cost adjustment factors for each month of Period I and Period II. The utility shall include in Statement BI derivations for all monthly factors required in the computation of present fuel clause revenues reported in Statement BH. The utility shall provide an explanation of the differences between the present and proposed fuel clauses.

(iv) All fuel cost adjustment factors shall be cost-based. The utility shall make a computational showing that shall develop adjustment factors in a manner consistent with the requirements of ยง 35.14 of this chapter. The utility shall provide supporting detail on cost by type of fuel, and shall show separately the allowable fuel clause cost component of purchased or interchanged energy. All fuel cost data shall be consistent with that included in operation and maintenance expenses in Statement AH under paragraph (h)(8) of this section.
