
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BJ-Summary data tables.

(35)Statement BJ is a tabular summary of portions of Period I and Period II data from specific cost of service statements in this paragraph. The utility shall summarize under descriptive titles the Period I and Period II data from the cost of service provisions listed in this subparagraph. The utility shall supply the data in the manner described for each cost of service statement and in this subparagraph.

(i) If a utility provides in Statement BK information that is substantially equivalent to the information required in this statement, the utility may fulfill the requirements of this statement by specifically referring to the location in Statement BK of the information required in this subparagraph.

(ii) The utility shall provide the information in the following statements as average total electric department monthly balances for each function and subfunction of plant:

(A) Statement AD-(h)(4)(i) and (ii);

(B) Statement AE-(h)(5)(i) and (ii);

(C) Statement AF-(h)(6)(i) through (v);

(D) Statement AG-(h)(7)(i) through (vi);

(E) Statement AL-(h)(12)(i) and (ii);

(F) Statement AM-(h)(13); and

(G) Statement AN-(h)(14).

(iii) The utility shall provide the information in the following statements as total electric department annual revenue and expense amounts:

(A) Statement AH-(h)(8)(i), (iv) and (v);

(B) Statement AI-(h)(9)(i) and (ii);

(C) Statement AJ-(h)(10)(i);

(D) Statement AK-(h)(11)(i);

(E) Statement AP-(h)(16)(i) through (iv);

(F) Statement AQ-(h)(17)(i) through (iii);

(G) Statement AR-(h)(18)(i) through (iv);

(H) Statement AS-(h)(19);

(I) Statement AT-(h)(20); and

(J) Statement AU-(h)(21).

(iv) The utility shall provide all cost of capital amounts in the following statements.

(A) Statement AV-(h)(22)(i)(A); and

(B) Statement AW-(h)(23);

(v) The utility shall provide all tax rate data in Statement AY, paragraph (h)(25)(i) of this section.

(vi) The utility shall provide the information in the following statements as appropriate, for total electric department values and individual customer group values:

(A) Statement BB-(h)(27)(i) through (vi);

(B) Statement BD-(h)(29)(i) through (iv);

(C) Statement BE-(h)(30)(iv) (A), (B), and (C);

(D) Statement BG-(h)(32)(iii); and

(E) Statement BH-(h)(33).
