
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BK-Electric utility department cost of service, total and as allocated.

(36)Statement BK is a statement of the claimed fully allocated cost of service of the utility developed and shown for Period I and Period II. The utility shall include analytical support for each rate proposed to be differentiated on a time-of-use basis. The utility shall also provide any marginal or incremental cost information that is required to support the changed rate developed on a marginal or incremental cost basis. The utility shall show allocations of fully distributed costs to the wholesale services subject to the changed rate accompanied by a comparison of allocated costs with revenues under the changed rate. Nothing in this subparagraph shall preclude use by any utility of any cost of service technique it believes reasonable and that is consistent with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The utility shall base the fully distributed cost of service and the allocations thereof upon data provided in the accompanying detailed statements required under this section and additional data which the utility may submit and support in connection with this statement. The cost of service data of the utility shall conform to the following requirements:

(A) The total electric rate base and cost of service shall be itemized and summarized by major functions and in a format designed to facilitate review and analysis.

(B) Based on the total electric rate base and cost of service, and on allocated or assigned component elements, the cost of service for each Statement BA wholesale customer rate group under paragraph (h)(26) shall be itemized and summarized by major functions in a format consistent with that shown for total electric.

(C) The costs of service data for total electric and for each of the wholesale customer groups shall include data that show the return and the income taxes by components and in total, based upon the rate of return claimed by the utility in Statement AV under paragraph (h)(22). Individual components of income taxes shall include income taxes payable, provision for deferred income tax-debits and deferred income tax-credits, investment tax credits, or other adjustments.

(D) The fully distributed cost of service study of the utility shall disclose the principal determinants for allocation of total electric costs among the wholesale customer groups, including but not limited to the following:
