
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart B - Documents To Be Submitted With a Filing
###### ยง 35.13 Filing of changes in rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements.
####### Statement BL,Rate design information.

(37)-In support of the design of the changed rate, the utility shall submit the following material:

(i) A narrative statement describing and justifying the objectives of the design of the changed rate. If the purpose of the rate design is to reflect costs, the utility shall state how that objective is achieved, and shall accompany it with a summary cost analysis that would justify the rate design, including any discounts or surcharges based on delivery voltage level or other specific considerations. Such summary cost analysis shall be consistent with, derived from, and cross-referenced to the data in cost of service Statement BK. If the rate design is not intended to reflect costs, whether fully distributed, marginal, incremental, or other, the utility shall provide a statement to justify the departure from cost-based rates.

(ii) If the billing determinants, such as quantities of demand, energy, or delivery points, are on different bases than the cost allocation determinants supporting such charges, the utility shall submit an explanation setting forth the economic or other considerations that warrant such departure. The information shall include at least the following:

(A) If the individual rate for the demand, energy and customer charges do not correspond to the comparable cost classifications supporting such charges, a detailed explanation stating the reasons for the differences.

(B) If the changed rate contains more than one demand or energy block, a detailed explanation indicating the rationale for the blocking and the considerations upon which such blocking is based, including adequate cost support for the specified blocking.
