
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart C - Other Filing Requirements
###### ยง 35.14 Fuel cost and purchased economic power adjustment clauses.
####### And less

(v)the cost of fossil and nuclear fuel recovered through all inter-system sales.

(3) Sales (S) must be all kWh's sold, excluding inter-system sales. Where for any reason, billed system sales cannot be coordinated with fuel costs for the billing period, sales may be equated to the sum of: (i) Generation, (ii) purchases, (iii) exchange received, less (iv) energy associated with pumped storage operations, less (v) inter-system sales referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, less (vi) total system losses.

(4) The adjustment factor developed according to this procedure shall be modified to properly allow for losses (estimated if necessary) associated only with wholesale sales for resale.

(5) The adjustment factor developed according to this procedure may be further modified to allow the recovery of gross receipts and other similar revenue based tax charges occasioned by the fuel adjustment revenues.

(6) The cost of fossil fuel shall include no items other than those listed in Account 151 of the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts for Public Utilities and Licensees. The cost of nuclear fuel shall be that as shown in Account 518, except that if Account 518 also contains any expense for fossil fuel which has already been included in the cost of fossil fuel, it shall be deducted from this account. (Paragraph C of Account 518 includes the cost of other fuels used for ancillary steam facilities.)

(7) Where the cost of fuel includes fuel from company-owned or controlledsources, that fact shall be noted and described as part of any filing. Where the utility purchases fuel from a company-owned or controlled source, the price of which is subject to the jurisdiction of a regulatory body, and where the price of such fuel has been approved by that regulatory body, such costs shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to be reasonable and includable in the adjustment clause. If the current price, however, is in litigation and is being collected subject to refund, the utility shall so advise the Commission and shall keep a separate account of such amounts paid which are subject to refund, and shall advise the Commission of the final disposition of such matter by the regulatory body having jurisdiction. With respect to the price of fuel purchases from company-owned or controlled sources pursuant to contracts which are not subject to regulatory authority, the utility company shall file such contracts and amendments thereto with the Commission for its acceptance at the time it files its fuel clause or modification thereof. Any subsequent amendment to such contracts shall likewise be filed with the Commission as a rate schedule change and may be subject to suspension under section 205 of the Federal Power Act. Fuel charges by affiliated companies which do not appear to be reasonable may result in the suspension of the fuel adjustment clause or cause an investigation thereof to be made by the Commission on its own motion under section 206 of the Federal Power Act.

(8) All rate filings which contain a proposed new fuel clause or a change in an existing fuel clause shall conform such clauses with the regulations. Within one year of the effectiveness of this rulemaking, all public utilities with rate schedules that contain a fuel clause should conform such clauses with the regulations. Recognizing that individual public utilities may have special operating characteristics that may warrant granting temporary delays in the implementation of the regulations, the Commission may, upon showing of good cause, waive the requirements of this section of the regulations for an additional one-year period so as to permit the public utilities sufficient time to adjust to the requirements.

(9) All rate filings containing a proposed new fuel clause or change in an existing fuel clause shall include:

(i) A description of the fuel clause with detailed cost support for the base cost of fuel and purchased economic power or energy.

(ii) Full cost of service data unless the utility has had the rate approved by the Commission within a year, provided that such cost of service may not be required when an existing fuel cost adjustment clause is being modified to conform to the Commission's regulations.

(10) Whenever particular circumstances prevent the use of the standards provided for herein, or the use thereof would result in an undue burden, the Commission may, upon application under ยง 385.207 of this chapter and for good cause shown, permit deviation from these regulations.

(11) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the following definitions apply:
