
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statement of General Policy To Implement the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as Amended, and Executive Orders 11615 and 11627
###### ยง 2.104 Mechanisms for passthrough of pipeline take-or-pay buyout and buydown costs.
####### Cost allocation procedures.

(b)A pipeline's volume-based surcharges must be based on the volumes which underlie its most recent Commission-approved rates. Fixed charges must be based on each customer's cumulative deficiency in purchases in recent years (during which the current take-or-pay liabilities of the pipelines were incurred) measured in relation to that customer's purchases during a representative period during which take-or-pay liabilities were not incurred. The allocation formula employed must incorporate the following guidelines:

(1) A representative base period must be selected. The base period must reflect a representative level of purchases by the pipeline's firm customers during a period preceding the onset of changed conditions which resulted in reduced purchases and growth of the take-or-pay problem.

(2) Firm purchases by each customer during the base year under firm rate schedules or contracts for firm service must be determined.

(3) Firm sales purchase deficiency volumes for each subsequent year must be determined.

(4) A fixed charge based on each customer's cumulative deficiencies as compared to total cumulative deficiencies must be derived. The filing pipeline will be free to select for rate calculation and filing purposes a reasonable amortization period for buyout and buydown costs being recovered through fixed charges or volumetric surcharges. The pipeline will be entitled to interest at the rate set forth in part 154 of this chapter on unamortized amounts.
