
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statement of General Policy To Implement the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as Amended, and Executive Orders 11615 and 11627
###### ยง 2.104 Mechanisms for passthrough of pipeline take-or-pay buyout and buydown costs.
####### Prudence.

(d)(1) The Commission will examine the issue of prudence if it is raised by a party in an individual proceeding. If it is raised, the pipeline will be required to demonstrate the prudence of take-or-pay buyout and buydown costs which it seeks to recover from its customers through both fixed and volume-based charges.

(2) The Commission intends to exercise its authority to the full extent permitted by the Natural Gas Act to approve take-or-pay settlements. The Commission intends to approve uncontested take-or-pay settlements which are consistent with this section and found to be in the public interest. The Commission will also, if it appears reasonable and permissible to do so, approve contested settlements as to all consenting parties and initiate separate hearings to establish the rates for opposing parties. Alternatively, the Commission will approve contested settlements on the merits if supported by substantial evidence in the record. In any case where hearings are held as to the prudence of take-or-pay buyout and buydown costs, the Commission will permit the pipeline the opportunity to recover all take-or-pay costs found to be prudent from the contesting parties on a proportional basis, even if the amount allowed is greater than the amounts initially sought to be recovered by the pipeline.
