
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart C - Other Filing Requirements
###### ยง 35.26 Recovery of stranded costs by public utilities and transmitting utilities.
####### Procedure for customer to obtain stranded cost estimate.

(4)A customer under an existing wholesale requirements contract with a public utility seller may obtain from the seller an estimate of the customer's stranded cost obligation if it were to leave the public utility's generation supply system by filing with the public utility a request for an estimate at any time prior to the termination date specified in its contract.

(i) The public utility must provide a response within 30 days of receiving the request. The response must include:

(A) An estimate of the customer's stranded cost obligation based on the formula in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section;

(B) Supporting detail indicating how each element in the formula was derived;

(C) A detailed rationale justifying the basis for the utility's reasonable expectation of continuing to serve the customer beyond the termination date in the contract;

(D) An estimate of the amount of released capacity and associated energy that would result from the customer's departure; and

(E) The utility's proposal for any contract amendment needed to implement the customer's payment of stranded costs.

(ii) If the customer disagrees with the utility's response, it must respond to the utility within 30 days explaining why it disagrees. If the parties cannot work out a mutually agreeable resolution, they may exercise their rights to Commission resolution under the FPA.

(5) A customer must be given the option to market or broker a portion or all of the capacity and energy associated with any stranded costs claimed by the public utility.

(i) To exercise the option, the customer must so notify the utility in writing no later than 30 days after the public utility files its estimate of stranded costs for the customer with the Commission.

(A) Before marketing or brokering can begin, the utility and customer must execute an agreement identifying, at a minimum, the amount and the price of capacity and associated energy the customer is entitled to schedule, and the duration of the customer's marketing or brokering of such capacity and energy.

(ii) If agreement over marketing or brokering cannot be reached, and the parties seek Commission resolution of disputed issues, upon issuance of a Commission order resolving the disputed issues, the customer may reevaluate its decision in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section to exercise the marketing or brokering option. The customer must notify the utility in writing within 30 days of issuance of the Commission's order resolving the disputed issues whether the customer will market or broker a portion or all of the capacity and energy associated with stranded costs allowed by the Commission.

(iii) If a customer undertakes the brokering option, and the customer's brokering efforts fail to produce a buyer within 60 days of the date of the brokering agreement entered into between the customer and the utility, the customer shall relinquish all rights to broker the released capacity and associated energy and will pay stranded costs as determined by the formula in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
