
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 2 - Guidance for Determining the Acceptable Construction Area for Auxiliary and Replacement Facilities

These guidelines shall be followed to determine what area may be used to construct the auxiliary or replacement facility. Specifically, they address what areas, in addition to the permanent right-of-way, may be used.

An auxiliary or replacement facility must be within the existing right-of-way or facility site as specified by ยง 2.55(a)(1) or ยง 2.55(b)(1)(ii). Construction activities for the auxiliary or replacement facility can extend outside the current permanent right-of-way if they are within the temporary and permanent right-of-way and associated work spaces authorized for the construction of the existing installation.

If documentation is not available on the location and width of the temporary and permanent rights-of-way and associated work spaces that were used to construct the existing facility, the company may use the following guidance for the auxiliary installation or replacement, provided the appropriate easements have been obtained:

a. Construction should be limited to no more than a 75-foot-wide right-of-way including the existing permanent right-of-way for large diameter pipeline (pipe greater than 12 inches in diameter) to carry out routine construction. Pipeline 12 inches in diameter and smaller should use no more than a 50-foot-wide right-of-way.

b. The temporary right-of-way (working side) should be on the same side that was used in constructing the existing pipeline.

c. A reasonable amount of additional temporary work space on both sides of roads and interstate highways, railroads, and significant stream crossings and in side-slope areas is allowed. The size should be dependent upon site-specific conditions. Typical work spaces are:

d. The auxiliary or replacement facility must be located within the permanent right-of-way or, in the case of nonlinear facilities, the cleared building site. In the case of pipelines this is assumed to be 50 feet wide and centered over the pipeline unless otherwise legally specified.

However, use of the above guidelines for work space size is constrained by the physical evidence in the area. Areas obviously not cleared during the existing construction, as evidenced by stands of mature trees, structures, or other features that exceed the age of the facility being replaced, should not be used for construction of the auxiliary or replacement facility.

If these guidelines cannot be met, the company should consult with the Commission's staff to determine if the exemption afforded by ยง 2.55 may be used. If the exemption may not be used, construction authorization must be obtained pursuant to another regulation under the Natural Gas Act.
