
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart F - Procedures and Requirements Regarding Regional Transmission Organizations
###### ยง 35.34 Regional Transmission Organizations.
####### Tariff administration and design.

(1)The Regional Transmission Organization must administer its own transmission tariff and employ a transmission pricing system that will promote efficient use and expansion of transmission and generation facilities. As part of its demonstration with respect to tariff administration and design, the Regional Transmission Organization must satisfy the standards listed in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, or demonstrate that an alternative proposal is consistent with or superior to satisfying such standards.

(i) The Regional Transmission Organization must be the only provider of transmission service over the facilities under its control, and must be the sole administrator of its own Commission-approved open access transmission tariff. The Regional Transmission Organization must have the sole authority to receive, evaluate, and approve or deny all requests for transmission service. The Regional Transmission Organization must have the authority to review and approve requests for new interconnections.

(ii) Customers under the Regional Transmission Organization tariff must not be charged multiple access fees for the recovery of capital costs for transmission service over facilities that the Regional Transmission Organization controls.
