
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart F - Procedures and Requirements Regarding Regional Transmission Organizations
###### ยง 35.34 Regional Transmission Organizations.
####### Congestion management.

(2)The Regional Transmission Organization must ensure the development and operation of market mechanisms to manage transmission congestion. As part of its demonstration with respect to congestion management, the Regional Transmission Organization must satisfy the standards listed in paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, or demonstrate that an alternative proposal is consistent with or superior to satisfying such standards.

(i) The market mechanisms must accommodate broad participation by all market participants, and must provide all transmission customers with efficient price signals that show the consequences of their transmission usage decisions. The Regional Transmission Organization must either operate such markets itself or ensure that the task is performed by another entity that is not affiliated with any market participant.

(ii) The Regional Transmission Organization must satisfy the market mechanism requirement no later than one year after it commences initial operation. However, it must have in place at the time of initial operation an effective protocol for managing congestion.
