
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart F - Procedures and Requirements Regarding Regional Transmission Organizations
###### ยง 35.34 Regional Transmission Organizations.
####### Ancillary services.

(4)The Regional Transmission Organization must serve as a provider of last resort of all ancillary services required by Order No. 888, FERC Statutes and Regulations, Regulations Preamble January 1991-June 1996 &#xB6; 31,036 (Final Rule on Open Access and Stranded Costs; see 61 FR 21540, May 10, 1996), and subsequent orders. As part of its demonstration with respect to ancillary services, the Regional Transmission Organization must satisfy the standards listed in paragraphs (k)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, or demonstrate that an alternative proposal is consistent with or superior to satisfying such standards.

(i) All market participants must have the option of self-supplying or acquiring ancillary services from third parties subject to any restrictions imposed by the Commission in Order No. 888, FERC Statutes and Regulations, Regulations Preamble January 1991-June 1996 &#xB6; 31,036 (Final Rule on Open Access and Stranded Costs), and subsequent orders.

(ii) The Regional Transmission Organization must have the authority to decide the minimum required amounts of each ancillary service and, if necessary, the locations at which these services must be provided. All ancillary service providers must be subject to direct or indirect operational control by the Regional Transmission Organization. The Regional Transmission Organization must promote the development of competitive markets for ancillary services whenever feasible.

(iii) The Regional Transmission Organization must ensure that its transmission customers have access to a real-time balancing market. The Regional Transmission Organization must either develop and operate this market itself or ensure that this task is performed by another entity that is not affiliated with any market participant.
