
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 35 - FILING OF RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart H - Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services at Market-Based Rates
###### ยง 35.39 Affiliate restrictions.
####### Separation of functions.

(c)(1) For the purpose of this paragraph, entities acting on behalf of and for the benefit of a franchised public utility with captive customers (such as entities controlling or marketing power from the electrical generation assets of the franchised public utility) are considered part of the franchised public utility. Entities acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the market-regulated power sales affiliates of a franchised public utility with captive customers are considered part of the market-regulated power sales affiliates.

(2) (i) To the maximum extent practical, the employees of a market-regulated power sales affiliate must operate separately from the employees of any affiliated franchised public utility with captive customers.

(ii) Franchised public utilities with captive customers are permitted to share support employees, and field and maintenance employees with their market-regulated power sales affiliates. Franchised public utilities with captive customers are also permitted to share senior officers and boards of directors with their market-regulated power sales affiliates; provided, however, that the shared officers and boards of directors must not participate in directing, organizing or executing generation or market functions.

(iii) Notwithstanding any other restrictions in this section, in emergency circumstances affecting system reliability, a market-regulated power sales affiliate and a franchised public utility with captive customers may take steps necessary to keep the bulk power system in operation. A franchised public utility with captive customers or the market-regulated power sales affiliate must report to the Commission and disclose to the public on its Web site, each emergency that resulted in any deviation from the restrictions of section 35.39, within 24 hours of such deviation.
