
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 37 - OPEN ACCESS SAME-TIME INFORMATION SYSTEMS
##### ยง 37.6 Information to be posted on the OASIS.
###### Posting Transmission Service Products and Prices.

(c)(1) Transmission Providers must post prices and a summary of the terms and conditions associated with all transmission products offered to Transmission Customers.

(2) Transmission Providers must provide a downloadable file of their complete tariffs in the same electronic format as the tariff that is filed with the Commission. Transmission Providers also must provide a link to all of the rules, standards and practices that relate to transmission services posted on the Transmission Providers' public Web sites.

(3) Any offer of a discount for any transmission service made by the Transmission Provider must be announced to all potential customers solely by posting on the OASIS.

(4) For any transaction for transmission service agreed to by the Transmission Provider and a customer, the Transmission Provider (at the time when ATC must be adjusted in response to the transaction), must post on the OASIS (and make available for download) information describing the transaction (including: price; quantity; points of receipt and delivery; length and type of service; identification of whether the transaction involves the Transmission Provider's wholesale merchant function or any affiliate; identification of what, if any, ancillary service transactions are associated with this transmission service transaction; and any other relevant terms and conditions) and shall keep such information posted on the OASIS for at least 30 days. A record of the transaction must be retained and kept available as part of the audit log required in ยง 37.7.

(5) Customers choosing to use the OASIS to offer for resale transmission capacity they have purchased must post relevant information to the same OASIS as used by the Transmission Provider from whom the Reseller purchased the transmission capacity. This information must be posted on the same display page, using the same tables, as similar capability being sold by the Transmission Provider, and the information must be contained in the same downloadable files as the Transmission Provider's own available capability.
