
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 37 - OPEN ACCESS SAME-TIME INFORMATION SYSTEMS
##### § 37.6 Information to be posted on the OASIS.
###### Posting Other Transmission-Related Communications.

(g)(1) The posting of other communications related to transmission services must be provided for by the Responsible Party. These communications may include "want ads" and "other communications" (such as using the OASIS as a Transmission-related conference space or to provide transmission-related messaging services between OASIS users). Such postings carry no obligation to respond on the part of any market participant.

(2) The Responsible Party is responsible for posting other transmission-related communications in conformance with the instructions provided by the third party on whose behalf the communication is posted. It is the responsibility of the third party requesting such a posting to ensure the accuracy of the information to be posted.

(3) Notices of transfers of personnel shall be posted as described in § 358.4(c). The posting requirements are the same as those provided in § 37.7 for audit data postings.

(4) Logs detailing the circumstances and manner in which a Transmission Provider or Responsible Party exercised its discretion under any terms of the tariff shall be posted as described in § 358.5(c)(4). The posting requirements are the same as those provided in § 37.7 for audit data postings.
