
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 37 - OPEN ACCESS SAME-TIME INFORMATION SYSTEMS
##### ยง 37.6 Information to be posted on the OASIS.
###### Service requests withdrawn from facilities study queue.

(vi)

(A) Number of transmission service requests withdrawn from the Responsible Party's facilities study queue during the reporting quarter,

(B) Number of transmission service requests withdrawn from the Responsible Party's facilities study queue during the reporting quarter more than 60 days after the Responsible Party received the executed facilities study agreement, and

(C) Mean time (in days), for all transmission service requests withdrawn from the Responsible Party's facilities study queue during the reporting quarter, from the date the Responsible Party received the executed facilities study agreement to date when request was withdrawn from the Responsible Party's facilities study queue.

(2) The Responsible Party is required to post the measures in paragraph (h)(1)(i) through paragraph (h)(1)(vi) of this section for each calendar quarter within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter. The Responsible Party will keep the quarterly measures posted on OASIS for three calendar years.

(3) The Responsible Party will be required to post on OASIS the measures in paragraph (h)(3)(i) through paragraph (h)(3)(iv) of this section in the event the Responsible Party, for two consecutive calendar quarters, completes more than twenty (20) percent of the studies associated with requests for transmission service from entities that are not Affiliates of the Responsible Party more than sixty (60) days after the Responsible Party delivers the appropriate study agreement. The Responsible Party will have to post the measures in paragraph (h)(3)(i) through paragraph (h)(3)(iv) of this section until it processes at least ninety (90) percent of all studies within 60 days after it has received the appropriate executed study agreement. For the purposes of calculating the percent of studies completed more than sixty (60) days after the Responsible Party delivers the appropriate study agreement, the Responsible Party should aggregate all system impact studies and facilities studies that it completes during the reporting quarter.

(i) Mean, across all system impact studies the Responsible Party completes during the reporting quarter, of the employee-hours expended per system impact study the Responsible Party completes during reporting period;

(ii) Mean, across all facilities studies the Responsible Party completes during the reporting quarter, of the employee-hours expended per facilities study the Responsible Party completes during reporting period;

(iii) The number of employees the Responsible Party has assigned to process system impact studies;

(iv) The number of employees the Responsible Party has assigned to process facilities studies.

(4) The Responsible Party is required to post the measures in paragraph (h)(3)(i) through paragraph (h)(3)(iv) of this section for each calendar quarter within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter. The Responsible Party will keep the quarterly measures posted on OASIS for five calendar years.
