
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3a - NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Classification Markings and Special Notations
###### ยง 3a.31 Classification markings and special notations.

(a) After the chairman, the vice chairman, or the executive director determines that classified information is contained in an original document or other item, the appropriate marking, i.e., Secret or Confidential, will be applied as indicated herein. In addition, each classified document will reflect its date of origin and the Bureau, Office, or Regional Office responsible for its preparation and issuance, and the identity of the highest authority authorizing the classification. Where the individual who signs or otherwise authenticates the document or other item has also authorized the classification, no further annotation as to his identity is required. Each classified document will also show on its face whether it is subject to or exempt from the General Declassification Schedule described in ยง 3a.22(b).

(1) For marking documents which are subject to the General Declassification Schedule, the following stamp will be used:

(2) For marking documents which are to be automatically declassified on a given event or date earlier than the General Declassification Schedule the following stamp will be used:

(3) For marking documents which are exempt from the General Declassification Schedule the following stamp will be used:

(b) Should the classifier fail to mark such document with one of the foregoing stamps, the document shall be deemed to be subject to the General Declassification Schedule. The person who signs or finally approves a document or other material containing classified information shall be deemed to be the classifier. If the classifier is other than such person he shall be identified on the stamp as indicated.

(c) On documents, the classification markings Secret and Confidential will be stamped in red ink, printed, or written in letters considerably larger than those used in the text of the document. On documents which are typewritten in elite, pica or executive size type, the above markings should be in letters not less than three-sixteenths inch in height. No markings, other than those indicated above, are authorized to designate that a document or material requires protection in the interests of national security. The overall classification assigned to a document will be conspicuously marked on the top and bottom of each page and on the outside of the front and back covers, if any. Letters of transmittal, endorsements, routing slips, or any other papers of any size which conceal or partially conceal the cover, the title page, or first page, will bear the marking of the overall classification.

(d) Whenever a classified document contains either more than one security classification category or unclassified information, each section, part or paragraph should be marked to the extent practicable to show its classification category or that it is unclassified.

(e) Letters of transmittal or other covering documents which are classified solely because of classified enclosures or attachments, or which are classified in a lower category than such enclosures or attachments, will bear either of the following markings, as appropriate.

(1) If the covering document is classified on its own, but has enclosures or attachments of a higher classification, or is a component (i.e., an endorsement or comment) or a file in which other components bear a higher classification:

(2) If unclassified when separated from its classified enclosures or attachments:

(f) In addition to the classification category markings prescribed above, the first or title page of each classified document will contain instructions as appropriate, in accordance with the following:
