
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 45 - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO HOLD INTERLOCKING POSITIONS
##### ยง 45.8 Contents of application.
###### Data as to positions with each public utility mentioned in paragraph,b,of this section.

(c)()(The format should be adapted to the information submitted, in keeping with completeness and conciseness. In the case of public utilities of the same holding company system, brevity will generally be promoted by submitting the information for all of the utilities involved under each subsection progressively in the order of the subsections, utilizing tables when feasible.)

(1) Name of utility, unless said utility does not have officers or directors.

(2) Date elected or appointed, or anticipated date of election or appointment, to each position not previously authorized.

(3) Names of officers and directors; number of vacancies, if any, on Board of Directors.

(4) Description of applicant's duties: Approximate amount of time devoted thereto; and, if applicant seeks authorization as a director, the percentage of directors meetings held during the past 12 months that were attended by the applicant.

(5) All other professional, contractual, or business relationships of applicant with the public utility, either directly or through other corporations or firms.

(6) Extent of applicant's direct or indirect ownership, control of, or beneficial interest in the public utility or the securities thereof. If ownership or interest is held in a name other than that of applicant, state name and address of the holder.

(7) Extent of applicant's indebtedness to the public utility, how and when incurred, and consideration therefor.

(8) All money or property received by applicant from the public utility or any affiliate (i) during the past 12 months, and expected during the ensuing 12 months, or (ii) during the public utility's most recently ended fiscal year, and expected during the public utility's current fiscal year, or (iii) during the past and current calendar years, whether for services, reimbursement for expenses, or otherwise. Specify in detail the amount thereof and the basis therefor. If applicant's compensation for services to the public utility is not paid directly by the public utility, give name of the corporation that does pay same, the amount allocated or allocable to the public utility or any affiliate, and the basis or reason for such allocation.

(9) Whether during the past 5 years the public utility or any affiliate thereof or any security holders of either have commenced any suit against the officers or directors thereof for alleged waste, mismanagement or violation of duty, to which suit applicant was a party defendant. If so, give date of commencement of suit, court in which commenced, and present status.
