
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 45 - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO HOLD INTERLOCKING POSITIONS
##### ยง 45.8 Contents of application.
###### Data as to positions with each bank, trust company, banking association or firm, mentioned in paragraph,b,of this section, that is authorized by law to underwrite or participate in the marketing of securities of a public utility.

(d)()(The applicant shall use a separate sheet for each corporation.)

(1) Name of corporation and address of principal place of business.

(2) Positions which applicant holds or seeks authorization to hold therein and when and by whom elected or appointed to each position.

(3) Description of applicant's duties in each position and the approximate amount of time devoted thereto, and, if applicant seeks authorization as director, the percentage of directors meetings held during the past 12 months that were attended by the applicant.

(4) Extent of applicant's direct or indirect ownership, or control of, or beneficial interest in, the company or in the securities thereof, including common stock, preferred stock, bonds, or other securities. If such ownership or interest is held in a name other than that of applicant, state name and address of such holder.

(5) All money or property received by applicant from the company (i) during the past 12 months, and expected during the ensuing 12 months, or (ii) during the company's most recently ended fiscal year, and expected during the company's current fiscal year, or (iii) during the past and current calendar years, whether for services, reimbursement for expenses, or otherwise. Specify in detail the amount thereof and the basis therefor.

(6) Names and titles of directors, officers, or partners.

(7) Whether the corporation is now engaged in underwriting or participating in the marketing of the securities of a public utility; if so, to what extent.

(8) Whether the corporation, during applicant's connection therewith, has underwritten or participated in the marketing of the security issue of any public utility with which applicant was also connected; if so, the details with respect to every such transaction that occurred during the past 36 months.

(9) (If the answer to paragraph (d)(7) of this section is in the negative.) Give excerpts from the charter, declaration of trust, or articles of partnership that authorize the underwriting or participating in the marketing of securities of a public utility.

(10) (If the answer to paragraph (d)(7) of this section is in the negative.) Give general requirements of and appropriate reference to, the laws of the State of organization and of States in which corporation is doing business or has qualified to do business, with which it must comply in order to engage in the business of underwriting or participating in the marketing of the securities of a public utility.

(11) What steps, if any, have been taken to comply with laws mentioned in paragraph (d)(10) of this section.

(12) In lieu of paragraphs (d)(9), (10), and (11) of this section, an opinion by counsel to the same effect and including the information in respect thereto may be filed with the application.

(13) Whether the corporation has registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; if so, when and under what section of what act.
