
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 45 - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO HOLD INTERLOCKING POSITIONS
##### ยง 45.8 Contents of application.
###### Data as to positions with each company, mentioned in paragraph,b,of this section, supplying electrical equipment to a public utility in which applicant holds a position.

(e)()(Applicant shall use a separate sheet for each company.)

(1) Name of company and address of principal place of business.

(2) Positions which applicant holds or seeks authorization to hold therein and when and by whom elected or appointed to each position.

(3) Description of applicant's duties in each position and approximate amounts of time devoted thereto, and, if applicant seeks authorization as director, the percentage of directors meetings held during the past 12 months that were attended by the applicant.

(4) Names and titles of directors or partners.

(5) Name of each public utility, with which applicant holds or seeks authorization to hold a position, to which the company supplies electrical equipment; the frequency of such transactions; the approximate annual dollar volume of such business; and the type of equipment supplied.

(6) Nature of relationship between the company supplying electrical equipment and the public utility:

(i) Whether company manufactures such electrical equipment or is a dealer therein.

(ii) Whether company supplies electrical equipment to the public utility pursuant to construction, service, agency, or other contract with the public utility or an affiliate thereof, and, if so, furnish brief summary of the terms of such contract.

(7) Extent of applicant's direct or indirect ownership, or control of, or beneficial interest in, the company or in the securities thereof, including common stock, preferred stock, bonds, or other securities. If such ownership or interest is held in a name other than that of applicant, state name and address of such holder.

(8) All money or property received by applicant from the company (i) during the past 12 months, and expected during the ensuing 12 months, or (ii) during the company's most recently ended fiscal year, and expected during the company's current fiscal year, or (iii) during the past and current calendar years, whether for services, reimbursement for expenses, or otherwise. Specify in detail the amount thereof and the basis therefor.
