
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 45 - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORITY TO HOLD INTERLOCKING POSITIONS
##### ยง 45.8 Contents of application.
###### Data as to positions with public utility holding companies.,holding company

(f)(Do not include here data as to corporations listed in paragraph (b) of this section which are also holding companies. Aas herein used means any corporation which directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, 10 per centum or more, of the outstanding voting securities of a public utility.)

(1) Name of holding company and address of principal place of business.

(2) Positions which applicant holds therein, when and by whom elected or appointed to each position.

(3) Extent of applicant's direct or indirect ownership, or control of, or beneficial interest in, the holding company or in the securities thereof, including common stock, preferred stock, bonds, or other securities. If such ownership or interest is held in a name other than that of applicant, state name and address of such holder.

(4) All money or property received by applicant from the holding company (i) during the past 12 months, and expected during the ensuing 12 months, or (ii) during the holding company's most recently ended fiscal year, and expected during the holding company's current fiscal year, or (iii) during the past and current calendar years, whether for services, reimbursement for expenses, or otherwise. Specify in detail the amount thereof and the basis therefor.
