
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3a - NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Access to Classified Materials
###### ยง 3a.41 Access requirements.

(a) The Personnel Security Officer, on a continuing current basis, will certify to the Security Officer, the head of each bureau and office and each regional engineer, the names of officers and employees who have been granted a security clearance for access to classified material and the level of such clearance (Top Secret, Secret, Confidential). The Personnel Security Officer will maintain accurate and current listings of personnel who have been granted security clearances in accordance with the standards and criteria of Executive Orders 10450 and 10865 and as prescribed by this part.

(b) In addition to a security clearance, staff members must have a need for access to classified information or material in connection with the performance of duties. The determination for the need-to-know will be made by the official having responsibility for the classified information or material.

(c) When a staff member no longer requires access to classified information or material in connection with performance of official duties, the Personnel Security Officer will administratively withdraw the security clearance. Additionally, when a staff member no longer needs access to a particular security classification category, the security clearance will be adjusted to the classification category required. In both cases, this action will be without prejudice to the staff member's eligibility for a security clearance or upgrading of category should the need again arise.

(d) Access to classified information or material originated by the FERC may be authorized to persons outside the Executive Branch of the Government engaged in historical research and to former Presidential appointees as provided in paragraphs VI B and C of the NSC directive dated May 17, 1972. The determination of access authorization will be made by the Chairman.

(e) Except as otherwise provided in section 102 of the National Security Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 495, 50 U.S.C. 403, classified information or material originating in one department or agency shall not be disseminated outside any other department or agency to which it has been made available without the consent of the originating organization.
