
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 50 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO SITE INTERSTATE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
##### ยง 50.5 Pre-filing procedures.
###### Contents of the initial filing.

(c)An applicant's pre-filing request will be filed after the initial consultation and must include the following information:

(1) A description of the schedule desired for the project, including the expected application filing date, desired date for Commission approval, and proposed project operation date, as well as the status of any State siting proceedings.

(2) A detailed description of the project, including location maps and plot plans to scale showing all major components, including a description of zoning and site availability for any permanent facilities.

(3) A list of the permitting entities responsible for conducting separate Federal permitting and environmental reviews and authorizations for the project, including contact names and telephone numbers, and a list of local entities with local authorization requirements. The filing must include information concerning:

(i) How the applicant intends to account for each of the relevant entity's permitting and environmental review schedules, including its progress in DOE's pre-application process; and

(ii) When the applicant proposes to file with these permitting and local entities for the respective permits or other authorizations.

(4) A list of all affected landowners and other stakeholders (include contact names and telephone numbers) that have been contacted, or have contacted the applicant, about the project.

(5) A description of what other work already has been done, including, contacting stakeholders, agency and Indian tribe consultations, project engineering, route planning, environmental and engineering contractor engagement, environmental surveys/studies, open houses, and any work done or actions taken in conjunction with a State proceeding. This description also must include the identification of the environmental and engineering firms and sub-contractors under contract to develop the project.

(6) Proposals for at least three prospective third-party contractors from which Commission staff may make a selection to assist in the preparation of the requisite NEPA document, if the Director determined a third-party contractor would be necessary in the Initial Consultation meeting.

(7) A proposed Project Participation Plan, as set forth in ยง 50.4(a).
