
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 50 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO SITE INTERSTATE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
##### § 50.5 Pre-filing procedures.
###### Subsequent filing requirements.

(e)Upon the Director's issuance of a notice commencing an applicant's pre-filing process, the applicant must:

(1) Within 7 days, finalize and file the Project Participation Plan, as defined in § 50.4(a), and establish the dates and locations at which the applicant will conduct meetings with stakeholders and Commission staff.

(2) Within 14 days, finalize the contract with the selected third-party contractor, if applicable.

(3) Within 14 days:

(i) Provide all identified stakeholders with a copy of the Director's notification commencing the pre-filing process;

(ii) Notify affected landowners in compliance with the requirements of § 50.4(c); and

(iii) Notify permitting entities and request information detailing any specific information not required by the Commission in the resource reports required under § 380.16 of this chapter that the permitting entities may require to reach a decision concerning the proposed project. The responses of the permitting entities must be filed with the Commission, as well as being provided to the applicant.

(4) Within 30 days, submit a mailing list of all stakeholders contacted under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, including the names of the Federal, State, Tribal, and local jurisdictions' representatives. The list must include information concerning affected landowner notifications that were returned as undeliverable.

(5) Within 30 days, file a summary of the project alternatives considered or under consideration.

(6) Within 30 days, file an updated list of all Federal, State, Tribal, and local agencies permits and authorizations that are necessary to construct the proposed facilities. The list must include:

(i) A schedule detailing when the applications for the permits and authorizations will be submitted (or were submitted);

(ii) Copies of all filed applications; and

(iii) The status of all pending permit or authorization requests and of the Secretary of Energy's pre-application process being conducted under section 216(h)(4)(C) of the Federal Power Act.

(7) Within 60 days, file the draft resource reports required in § 380.16 of this chapter.

(8) On a monthly basis, file status reports detailing the applicant's project activities including surveys, stakeholder communications, and agency and tribe meetings, including updates on the status of other required permits or authorizations. If the applicant fails to respond to any request for additional information, fails to provide sufficient information, or is not making sufficient progress towards completing the pre-filing process, the Director may issue a notice terminating the process.
