
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3a - NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Accountability For Classified Material
###### ยง 3a.71 Accountability for classified material.
####### destroying official,witnessing official.

(h) In the Washington Office, classified material will be destroyed by OAO and will be accomplished by burning in the presence of aand aDestroying and witnessing officials will be alternate Security Officers from OAO. A record of destruction of each classified document will be maintained on FPC Form 1285. Classified Document Destruction Certificate. In addition, the date of destruction and the destruction certificate number will be recorded on the file copy of FPC Form 55 in the central control registry. The original signed copy of the destruction certificate will be retained in the central control registry. The duplicate copy will be retained by the destroying official. Regional Engineers will follow these instructions for destruction of classified material in their possession, except that the destroying official shall be the Regional Engineer and the witnessing official shall be any other individual having appropriate security clearance.

(i) It is the responsibility of any staff member who has knowledge of the loss or possible compromise of classified information immediately to report the circumstances to the Director, OAO. The Director, OAO, will notify the originating Department and any other interested Department of the loss or possible compromise in order that a damage assessment can be conducted. An immediate inquiry will be initiated by the Director, OAO, for the purpose of taking corrective action and for recommendations to the chairman, through the Review Committee, for appropriate administrative, disciplinary, or legal action.
