
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 50 - APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO SITE INTERSTATE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
##### ยง 50.7 Applications: exhibits.
###### Exhibit H-System analysis data.

(h)An analysis evaluating the impact the proposed facilities will have on the existing electric transmission system performance, including:

(1) An analysis of the existing and expected congestion on the electric transmission system.

(2) Power flow cases used to analyze the proposed and future transmission system under anticipated load growth, operating conditions, variations in power import and export levels, and additional transmission facilities required for system reliability. The cases must:

(i) Provide all files to model normal, single contingency, multiple contingency, and special protective systems, including the special protective systems' automatic switching or load shedding system; and

(ii) State the assumptions, criteria, and guidelines upon which they are based and take into consideration transmission facility loading; first contingency incremental transfer capability (FCITC); normal incremental transfer capability (NITC); system protection; and system stability.

(3) A stability analysis including study assumptions, criteria, and guidelines used in the analysis, including load shedding allowables.

(4) A short circuit analysis for all power flow cases.

(5) A concise analysis to include:

(i) An explanation of how the proposed project will improve system reliability over the long and short term;

(ii) An analysis of how the proposed project will impact long term regional transmission expansion plans;

(iii) An analysis of how the proposed project will impact congestion on the applicant's entire system; and

(iv) A description of proposed high technology design features.

(6) Detailed single-line diagrams, including existing system facilities identified by name and circuit number, that show system transmission elements, in relation to the project and other principal interconnected system elements, as well as power flow and loss data that represent system operating conditions.
