
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Accounting for leases.

20.

A. All leases shall be classified as either capital or operating leases. The accounting for capitalized leases is effective January 1, 1984, except for the retroactive classification of certain leases which, in accordance with FASB No. 71, will not be required to be capitalized until after a three year transition period. For the purpose of reporting to the FERC, the transition period shall be deemed to end December 31, 1986.

B. The utility shall record a capital lease as an asset in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases, Account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel under Capital Leases, or account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate, and an obligation in account 227, Obligations under Capital Leases-Noncurrent, or account 243, Obligations under Capital Leases-Current, at an amount equal to the present value at the beginning of the lease term of minimum lease payments during the lease term, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor, together with any profit thereon. However, if the amount so determined exceeds the fair value of the leased property at the inception of the lease, the amount recorded as the asset and obligation shall be the fair value.
