
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Allowances.

21.

A. Title IV of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law No. 101-549, 104 Stat. 2399, 2584, provides for the issuance of allowances as a means to limit the emissions of certain airborne pollutants by various entities, including public utilities. Public utilities owning allowances, other than those acquired for speculative purposes, shall account for such allowances at cost in Account 158.1, Allowance Inventory, or Account 158.2, Allowances Withheld, as appropriate. Allowances acquired for speculative purposes and identified as such in contemporaneous records at the time of purchase shall be accounted for in Account 124, Other Investments.

B. When purchased allowances become eligible for use in different years, and the allocation of the purchase cost cannot be determined by fair value, the purchase cost allocated to allowances of each vintage shall be determined through use of a present-value based measurement. The interest rate used in the present-value measurement shall be the utility's incremental borrowing rate, in the month in which the allowances are acquired, for a loan with a term similar to the period that it will hold the allowances and in an amount equal to the purchase price.

C. The underlying records supporting Account 158.1 and Account 158.2 shall be maintained in sufficient detail so as to provide the number of allowances and the related cost by vintage year.

D. Issuances from inventory from inventory included in Account 158.1 and Account 158.2 shall be accounted for on a vintage basis using a monthly weighted-average method of cost determination. The cost of eligible allowances not used in the current year shall be transferred to the vintage for the immediately following year.

E. Account 158.1 shall be credited and Account 509, Allowances, debited so that the cost of the allowances to be remitted for the year is charged to expense monthly based on each month's emissions. This may, in certain circumstances, require allocation of the cost of an allowance between months on a fractional basis.

F. In any period in which actual emissions exceed the amount allowable based on eligible allowances owned, the utility shall estimate the cost to acquire the additional allowances needed and charge Account 158.1 with the estimated cost. This estimated cost of future allowance acquisitions shall be credited to Account 158.1 and charged to Account 509 in the same accounting period as the related charge to Account 158.1. Should the actual cost of these allowances differ from the estimated cost, the differences shall be recognized in the then-current period's inventory issuance cost.

G. Any penalties assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency for the emission of excess pollutants shall be charged to Account 426.3, Penalties.
