
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### See

H. Gains on dispositions of allowances, other than allowances held for speculative purposes, shall be accounted for as follows. First, if there is uncertainty as to the regulatory treatment, the gain shall be deferred in Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, pending resolution of the uncertainty. Second, if there is certainty as to the existence of a regulatory liability, the gain will be credited to Account 254, with subsequent recognition in income when reductions in charges to customers occur or the liability is otherwise satisfied. Third, all other gains will be credited to Account 411.8, Gains from Disposition of Allowances. Losses on disposition of allowances, other than allowances held for speculative purposes, shall be accounted for as follows. Losses that qualify as regulatory assets shall be charged directly to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets. All other losses shall be charged to Account 411.9, Losses from Disposition of Allowances. (Definition No. 30.) Gains or losses on disposition of allowances held for speculative purposes shall be recognized in Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 426.5, Other Deductions, as appropriate.
