
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Allowance for funds used during construction

(17)(Major and Nonmajor Utilities) includes the net cost for the period of construction of borrowed funds used for construction purposes and a reasonable rate on other funds when so used, not to exceed, without prior approval of the Commission, allowances computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subparagraph. No allowance for funds used during construction charges shall be included in these accounts upon expenditures for construction projects which have been abandoned.

(a) The formula and elements for the computation of the allowance for funds used during construction shall be:

(b) The rates shall be determined annually. The balances for long-term debt, preferred stock and common equity shall be the actual book balances as of the end of the prior year. The cost rates for long-term debt and preferred stock shall be the weighted average cost determined in the manner indicated in ยง 35.13 of the Commission's Regulations Under the Federal Power Act. The cost rate for common equity shall be the rate granted common equity in the last rate proceeding before the ratemaking body having primary rate jurisdictions. If such cost rate is not available, the average rate actually earned during the preceding three years shall be used. The short-term debt balances and related cost and the average balance for construction work in progress plus nuclear fuel in process of refinement, conversion, enrichment, and fabrication shall be estimated for the current year with appropriate adjustments as actual data becomes available.
