
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Land and Land Rights.

7.

A. The accounts for land and land rights shall include the cost of land owned in fee by the utility and rights. Interests, and privileges held by the utility in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, and other like interests in land. Do not include in the accounts for land and land rights and rights-of-way costs incurred in connection with first clearing and grading of land and rights-of-way and the damage costs associated with the construction and installation of plant. Such costs shall be included in the appropriate plant accounts directly benefited.

B. Where special assessments for public improvements provide for deferred payments, the full amount of the assessments shall be charged to the appropriate land account and the unpaid balance shall be carried in an appropriate liability account. Interest on unpaid balances shall be charged to the appropriate interest account. If any part of the cost of public improvements is included in the general tax levy, the amount thereof shall be charged to the appropriate tax account.

C. The net profit from the sale of timber, cord wood, sand, gravel, other resources or other property acquired with the rights-of-way or other lands shall be credited to the appropriate plant account to which related. Where land is held for a considerable period of time and timber and other natural resources on the land at the time of purchase increases in value, the net profit (after giving effect to the cost of the natural resources) from the sales of timber or its products or other natural resources shall be credited to the appropriate utility operating income account when such land has been recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use or classified as plant in service, otherwise to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income.

D. Separate entries shall be made for the acquisition, transfer, or retirement of each parcel of land, and each land right (except rights of way for distribution lines), or water right, having a life of more than one year. A record shall be maintained showing the nature of ownership, full legal description, area, map reference, purpose for which used, city, county, and tax district on which situated, from whom purchased or to whom sold, payment given or received, other costs, contract date and number, date of recording of deed, and book and page of record. Entries transferring or retiring land or land rights shall refer to the original entry recording its acquisition.

E. Any difference between the amount received from the sale of land or land rights, less agents' commissions and other costs incident to the sale, and the book cost of such land or rights, shall be included in account 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant when such property has been recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, otherwise to account 421.1, Gain on Disposition of Property or 421.2, Loss on Disposition of Property, as appropriate, unless a reserve therefor has been authorized and provided. Appropriate adjustments of the accounts shall be made with respect to any structures or improvements located on land sold.

F. The cost of buildings and other improvements (other than public improvements) shall not be included in the land accounts. If at the time of acquisition of an interest in land such interest extends to buildings or other improvements (other than public improvements) which are then devoted to utility operations, the land and improvements shall be separately appraised and the cost allocated to land and buildings or improvements on the basis of the appraisals. If the improvements are removed or wrecked without being used in operations, the cost of removing or wrecking shall be charged and the salvage credited to the account in which the cost of the land is recorded.

G. When the purchase of land for electric operations requires the purchase of more land than needed for such purposes, the charge to the specific land account shall be based upon the cost of the land purchased, less the fair market value of that portion of the land which is not to be used in utility operations. The portion of the cost measured by the fair market value of the land not to be used shall be included in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, or account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate.

H. Provisions shall be made for amortizing amounts carried in the accounts for limited-term interests in land so as to apportion equitably the cost of each interest over the life thereof. (For Major utilities, see account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Electric Plant Utility, and account 404, Amortization of Limited-Term Electric Plant. For Nonmajor utilities, see account 404.)

I. The items of cost to be included in the accounts for land and land rights are as follows:
