
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Additions and Retirements of Electric Plant.

10.

A. For the purpose of avoiding undue refinement in accounting for additions to and retirements and replacements of electric plant, all property will be considered as consisting of (1) retirement units and (2) minor items of property. Each utility shall maintain a written property units listing for use in accounting for additions and retirements of electric plant and apply the listing consistently.

B. The addition and retirement of retirement units shall be accounted for as follows:

(1) When a retirement unit is added to electric plant, the cost thereof shall be added to the appropriate electric plant account, except that when units are acquired in the acquisition of any electric plant constituting an operating system, they shall be accounted for as provided in electric plant instruction 5.

(2) When a retirement unit is retired from electric plant, with or without replacement, the book cost thereof shall be credited to the electric plant account in which it is included, determined in the manner set forth in paragraph D, below. If the retirement unit is of a depreciable class, the book cost of the unit retired and credited to electric plant shall be charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation applicable to such property. The cost of removal and the salvage shall be charged or credited, as appropriate, to such depreciation account.

C. The addition and retirement of minor items of property shall be accounted for as follows:

(1) When a minor item of property which did not previously exist is added to plant, the cost thereof shall be accounted for in the same manner as for the addition of a retirement unit, as set forth in paragraph B(1), above, if a substantial addition results, otherwise the charge shall be to the appropriate maintenance expense account.

(2) When a minor item of property is retired and not replaced, the book cost thereof shall be credited to the electric plant account in which it is included; and, in the event the minor item is a part of depreciable plant, the account for accumulated provision for depreciation shall be charged with the book cost and cost of removal and credited with the salvage. If, however, the book cost of the minor item retired and not replaced has been or will be accounted for by its inclusion in the retirement unit of which it is a part when such unit is retired, no separate credit to the property account is required when such minor item is retired.

(3) When a minor item of depreciable property is replaced independently of the retirement unit of which it is a part, the cost of replacement shall be charged to the maintenance account appropriate for the item, except that if the replacement effects a substantial betterment (the primary aim of which is to make the property affected more useful, more efficient, of greater durability, or of greater capacity), the excess cost of the replacement over the estimated cost at current prices of replacing without betterment shall be charged to the appropriate electric plant account.

D. The book cost of electric plant retired shall be the amount at which such property is included in the electric plant accounts, including all components of construction costs. The book cost shall be determined from the utility's records and if this cannot be done it shall be estimated. Utilities must furnish the particulars of such estimates to the Commission, if requested. When it is impracticable to determine the book cost of each unit, due to the relatively large number or small cost thereof, an appropriate average book cost of the units, with due allowance for any differences in size and character, shall be used as the book cost of the units retired.

E. The book cost of land retired shall be credited to the appropriate land account. If the land is sold, the difference between the book cost (less any accumulated provision for depreciation or amortization therefore which has been authorized and provided) and the sale price of the land (less commissions and other expenses of making the sale) shall be recorded in account 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant when the property has been recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, otherwise to accounts 421.1, Gain on Disposition of Property or 421.2, Loss on Disposition of Property, as appropriate. If the land is not used in utility service but is retained by the utility, the book cost shall be charged to account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, or account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate.

F. The book cost less net salvage of depreciable electric plant retired shall be charged in its entirety to account 108. Accumulated Provision for Depreciation of Electric Plant in Service (Account 110, Accumulated Provision for Depreciation and Amortization of Electric Utility Plant, in the case of Nonmajor utilities). Any amounts which, by approval or order of the Commission, are charged to account 182.1, Extraordinary Property Losses, shall be credited to account 108 (Account 110 for Nonmajor utilities).

G. In the case of Major utilities, the accounting for the retirement of amounts included in account 302, Franchises and Consents, and account 303, Miscellaneous Intangible Plant, and the items of limited-term interest in land included in the accounts for land and land rights, shall be as provided for in the text of account 111. Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Electric Plant in Service, account 404, Amortization of Limited-Term Electric Plant, and account 405, Amortization of Other Electric Plant.
