
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Training Costs.

4.

When it is necessary that employees be trained to specifically operate or maintain plant facilities that are being constructed, the related costs shall be accounted for as a current operating and maintenance expense. These expenses shall be charged to the appropriate functional accounts currently as they are incurred. However, when the training costs involved relate to facilities which are not conventional in nature, or are new to the company's operations, then see Electric Plant Instruction 3(19), for accounting.

A. This account shall include the original cost of electric plant, included in accounts 301 to 399, prescribed herein, owned and used by the utility in its electric utility operations, and having an expectation of life in service of more than one year from date of installation, including such property owned by the utility but held by nominees. (See also account 106 for unclassified construction costs of completed plant actually in service.)

B. The cost of additions to and betterments of property leased from others, which are includible in this account, shall be recorded in subdivisions separate and distinct from those relating to owned property. (See electric plant instruction 6.)

A. This account shall include the amount recorded under capital leases for plant leased from others and used by the utility in its utility operations.

B. The electric property included in this account shall be classified separately according to the detailed accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for electric plant in service.

C. Records shall be maintained with respect to each capital lease reflecting: (1) name of lessor, (2) basic details of lease, (3) terminal date, (4) original cost or fair market value of property leased, (5) future minimum lease payments, (6) executory costs, (7) present value of minimum lease payments, (8) the amount representing interest and the interest rate used, and (9) expenses paid. Records shall also be maintained for plant under a lease, to identify the asset retirement obligation and cost originally recognized for each lease and the periodic charges and credits made to the asset retirement obligations and asset retirement costs.

A. This account shall be charged with the cost of electric plant acquired as an operating unit or system by purchase, merger, consolidation liquidation, or otherwise, and shall be credited with the selling price of like property transferred to others pending the distribution to appropriate accounts in accordance with electric plant instruction 5.

B. Within six months from the date of acquisition or sale of property recorded herein, the utility shall file with the Commission the proposed journal entries to clear from this account the amounts recorded herein.

A. This account shall include the cost of electric plant which was constructed as a research, development, and demonstration plant under the provisions of paragraph C, Account 107, Construction Work in Progress-Electric, and due to the nature of the plant it is desirous to operate it for a period of time in an experimental status.

B. Amounts in this account shall be transferred to Account 101, Electric Plant in Service, or Account 121, Nonutility Property as appropriate when the project is no longer considered as experimental.

C. The depreciation on plant in this account shall be charged to account 403, Depreciation expense, and account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs, as appropriate, and credited to account 108, Accumulated provision for depreciation of electric utility plant (Major only). The amounts herein shall be depreciated over a period which corresponds to the estimated useful life of the relevant project considering the characteristics involved. However, when projects are transferred to account 101, Electric plant in service, a new depreciation rate based on the remaining service life and undepreciated amounts, will be established.

D. Records shall be maintained with respect to each unit of experiment so that full details may be obtained as to the cost, depreciation and the experimental status.

E. Should it be determined that experimental plant recorded in this account will fail to satisfactorily perform its function, the costs thereof shall be accounted for as directed or authorized by the Commission.

A. This account shall include temporarily the balance of electric plant as of the effective date of the prior system of accounts, which has not yet been reclassified as of the effective date of this system of accounts. The detail or primary accounts in support of this account employed prior to such date shall be continued pending reclassification into the electric plant accounts herein prescribed (301-399), but shall not be used for additions, betterments, or new construction.

B. No charges other than as provided in paragraph A, above, shall be made to this account, but retirements of such unclassified electric plant shall be credited hereto and to the supporting (old) fixed capital accounts until the reclassification shall have been accomplished.

A. This account shall include the original cost of electric plant owned by the utility, but leased to others as operating units or systems, where the lessee has exclusive possession.

B. The property included in this account shall be classified according to the detailed accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for electric plant in service and this account shall be maintained in such detail as though the property were used by the owner in its utility operations.

A. This account shall include the original cost of electric plant (except land and land rights) owned and held for future use in electric service under a definite plan for such use, to include: (1) Property acquired (except land and land rights) but never used by the utility in electric service, but held for such service in the future under a definite plan, and (2) property (except land and land rights) previously used by the utility in service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future, under a definite plan, in electric service.

B. This account shall also include the original cost of land and land rights owned and held for future use in electric service under a plan for such use, to include land and land rights: (1) Acquired but never used by the utility in electric service, but held for such service in the future under a plan, and (2) previously held by the utility in service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future under a plan, in electric service. (See Electric Plant Instruction 7.)

C. In the event that property recorded in this account shall no longer be needed or appropriate for future utility operations, the company shall request Commission approval of journal entries to remove such property from this account when the gain realized from the sale or other disposition of the property is $100,000 or more, prior to their being recorded. Such filings shall include the description and original cost of individual properties removed from this account, the accounts charged upon removal, and any associated gains realized upon disposition of such property.

D. Gains or losses from the sale of land and land rights or other disposition of such property previously recorded in this account and not placed in utility service shall be recorded directly in accounts 411.6 or 411.7, as appropriate, except when determined to be significant by the Commission. Upon such a determination, the amounts shall be transferred to account 256, Deferred Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or account 187, Deferred Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant, and amortized to accounts 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant, as appropriate.

E. The property included in this account shall be classified according to the detail accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for electric plant in service and the account shall be maintained in such detail as though the property were in service.

At the end of the year or such other date as a balance sheet may be required by the Commission, this account shall include the total of the balances of work orders for electric plant which has been completed and placed in service but which work orders have not been classified for transfer to the detailed electric plant accounts.

A. This account shall include the total of the balances of work orders for electric plant in process of construction.

B. Work orders shall be cleared from this account as soon as practicable after completion of the job. Further, if a project, such as a hydroelectric project, a steam station or a transmission line, is designed to consist of two or more units or circuits which may be placed in service at different dates, any expenditures which are common to and which will be used in the operation of the project as a whole shall be included in electric plant in service upon the completion and the readiness for service of the first unit. Any expenditures which are identified exclusively with units of property not yet in service shall be included in this account.

C. Expenditures on research, development, and demonstration projects for construction of utility facilities are to be included in a separate subdivision in this account. Records must be maintained to show separately each project along with complete detail of the nature and purpose of the research, development, and demonstration project together with the related costs.

A. This account shall be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 403, Depreciation Expense, or to clearing accounts for current depreciation expense for electric plant in service.

(2) Amounts charged to account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs, for current depreciation expense related to asset retirement costs in electric plant in service in a separate subaccount.

(3) Amounts charged to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, for depreciation expense on property included in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use. Include, also, the balance of accumulated provision for depreciation on property when transferred to account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, from other property accounts. Normally account 108 will not be used for current depreciation provisions because, as provided herein, the service life during which depreciation is computed commences with the date property is includible in electric plant in service; however, if special circumstances indicate the propriety of current accruals for depreciation, such charges shall be made to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income.

(4) Amounts charged to account 413, Expenses of Electric Plant Leased to Others, for electric plant included in account 104, Electric Plant Leased to Others.

(5) Amounts charged to account 416, Costs and Expenses of Merchandising, Jobbing, and Contract Work, or to clearing accounts for current depreciation expense.

(6) Amounts of depreciation applicable to electric properties acquired as operating units or systems. (See electric plant instruction 5.)

(7) Amounts charged to account 182, Extraordinary Property Losses, when authorized by the Commission.

(8) Amounts of depreciation applicable to electric plant donated to the utility.

(The utility shall maintain separate subaccounts for depreciation applicable to electric plant in service, electric plant leased to others and electric plant held for future use.)

B. At the time of retirement of depreciable electric utility plant, this account shall be charged with the book cost of the property retired and the cost of removal and shall be credited with the salvage value and any other amounts recovered, such as insurance. When retirement, costs of removal and salvage are entered originally in retirement work orders, the net total of such work orders may be included in a separate subaccount hereunder. Upon completion of the work order, the proper distribution to subdivisions of this account shall be made as provided in the following paragraph.

C. For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account shall be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for depreciation. For purposes of analysis, however, each utility shall maintain subsidiary records in which this account is segregated according to the following functional classification for electric plant:

(1) Steam production,

(2) Nuclear production,

(3) Hydraulic production,

(4) Other production,

(5) Transmission,

(6) Distribution,

(7) Regional Transmission and Market Operation, and

(8) General.

These subsidiary records shall reflect the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show separately for each such functional classification:

(a) The amount of accrual for depreciation,

(b) The book cost of property retired,

(c) Cost of removal,

(d) Salvage, and

(e) Other items, including recoveries from insurance.

Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for the amount of accrued cost of removal other than legal obligations for the retirement of plant recorded in Account 108, Accumulated provision for depreciation of electric utility plant (Major only).

D. When transfers of plant are made from one electric plant account to another, or from or to another utility department, or from or to nonutility property accounts, the accounting for the related accumulated provision for depreciation shall be as provided in electric plant instruction 12.

E. The utility is restricted in its use of the accumulated provision for depreciation to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use thereof without authorization by the Commission.

A. This account shall be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 403 Depreciation Expense, to account 404 Amortization of Limited-Term Electric Plant, to account 405, Amortization of Other Electric Plant, to account 413, Expenses of Electric Plant Leased to Others, to account 416. Costs and Expenses of Merchandising, Jobbing and Contract Work, or to clearing accounts for currently accruing depreciation and amortization.

(2) Amounts charged to account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs, in electric utility plant in service in a separate subaccount.

(3) Amounts of depreciation applicable to electric properties acquired as operating units or systems. (See electric plant instruction 4.)

(4) Amounts chargeable to account 182, Extraordinary Property Losses, when authorized by the Commission.

(5) Amounts of depreciation applicable to electric plant donated to the utility.

B. At the time of retirement of electric plant, this account shall be charged with the book cost of the property retired and the cost of removal, and shall be credited with the salvage value and any other amounts recovered, such as insurance. When retirements, cost of removal and salvage are entered originally in retirement work orders, the net total of such work orders may be included in a separate subaccount hereunder. Upon completion of the work order, the proper distribution to subdivisions of this account shall be made as provided in the following paragraph.

C. For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account shall be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for depreciation. This account shall be subdivided to show the amount applicable to Electric Plant in Service, Electric Plant Leased to Others, and Electric Plant Held for Future Use. These subsidiary records shall show the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show separately for each subdivision, (1) the amount of accrual for depreciation or amortization, (2) the book cost of property retired, (3) cost of removal, (4) salvage and (5) other items, including recoveries from insurance. Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for the amount of accrued cost of removal other than legal obligations for the retirement of plant recorded in account 110, Accumulated provision for depreciation of electric utility plant (Nonmajor only).

D. When transfers of plant are made from one electric plant account to another, or form or to nonutility property, the accounting shall be as provided in electric plant instruction 10.

E. The utility is restricted in its use of the accumulated provision for depreciation to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use thereof without authorization by the Commission.

A. This account shall be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 404, Amortization of Limited-Term Electric Plant, for the current amortization of limited-term electric plant investments.

(2) Amounts charged to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, for amortization expense on property included in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use. Include also the balance of accumulated provision for amortization on property when transferred to account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, from other property accounts. See also paragraph A(2), account 108, Accumulated Provision for Depreciation of Electric Utility Plant.

(3) Amounts charged to account 405, Amortization of Other Electric Plant.

(4) Amounts charged to account 413, Expenses of Electric Plant Leased to Others, for the current amortization of limited-term or other investments subject to amortization included in account 104, Electric Plant Leased to Others.

(5) Amounts charged to account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, for the amortization of intangible or other electric plant which does not have a definite or terminable life and is not subject to charges for depreciation expense, with Commission approval.

(The utility shall maintain subaccounts of this account for the amortization applicable to electric plant in service, electric plant leased to others and electric plant held for future use.)

B. When any property to which this account applies is sold, relinquished, or otherwise retired from service, this account shall be charged with the amount previously credited in respect to such property. The book cost of the property so retired less the amount chargeable to this account and less the net proceeds realized at retirement shall be included in account 421.1, Gain on Disposition of Property, or account 421.2, Loss on Disposition of Property, as appropriate.

C. For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account shall be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for amortization. For purposes of analysis, however, each utility shall maintain subsidiary records in which this account is segregated according to the following functional classification for electric plant: (1) Steam production, (2) nuclear production, (3) hydraulic production, (4) other production, (5) transmission, (6) distribution, and (7) general. These subsidiary records shall reflect the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show separately for each such functional classification (a) the amount of accrual for amortization, (b) the book cost of property retired, (c) cost of removal, (d) salvage, and (e) other items, including recoveries from insurance.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of the accumulated provision for amortization to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use thereof without authorization by the Commission.

A. This account shall include the difference between (1) the cost to the accounting utility of electric plant acquired as an operating unit or system by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation, or otherwise, and (2) the original cost, estimated, if not known, of such property, less the amount or amounts credited by the accounting utility at the time of acquisition to accumulated provisions for depreciation and amortization and contributions in aid of construction with respect to such property.

B. With respect to acquisitions after the effective date of this system of accounts, this account shall be subdivided so as to show the amounts included herein for each property acquisition and to electric plant in service, electric plant held for future use, and electric plant leased to others. (See electric plant instruction 5.)

C. Debit amounts recorded in this account related to plant and land acquisition may be amortized to account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, over a period not longer than the estimated remaining life of the properties to which such amounts relate. Amounts related to the acquisition of land only may be amortized to account 425 over a period of not more than 15 years. Should a utility wish to account for debit amounts in this account in any other manner, it shall petition the Commission for authority to do so. Credit amounts recorded in this account shall be accounted for as directed by the Commission.

This account shall be credited or debited with amounts which are includible in account 406. Amortization of Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments or account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, for the purpose of providing for the extinguishment of amounts in account 114, Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments, in instances where the amortization of account 114 is not being made by direct write-off of the account.

A. This account shall include the difference between the original cost, estimated if not known, and the book cost of electric plant to the extent that such difference is not properly includible in account 114, Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments. (See electric plant instruction 1C).

B. Amounts included in this account shall be classified in such manner as to show the origin of each amount and shall be disposed of as the Commission may approve or direct.

This account shall include the balances in accounts for utility plant, other than electric plant, such as gas, railway, etc.

This account shall include the accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization applicable to utility property other than electric plant.

A. This account shall include the original cost to the utility of nuclear fuel materials while in process of refinement, conversion, enrichment, and fabrication into nuclear fuel assemblies and components, including processing, fabrication, and necessary shipping costs. This account shall also include the salvage value of nuclear materials which are actually being reprocessed for use and were transferred from account 120.5, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Nuclear Fuel Assemblies. (See definition 20.)

B. This account shall be credited and account 120.2, Nuclear Fuel Materials and Assemblies-Stock Account, shall be debited for the cost of completed fuel assemblies delivered for use in refueling or to be held as spares. In the case of the initial core loading, the transfer shall be made directly to account 120.3, Nuclear Fuel Assemblies in Reactor, upon the conclusion of the experimental or test period of the plant prior to its becoming available for service.

A. This account shall be debited and account 120.1, Nuclear Fuel in Process of Refinement, Conversion, Enrichment, and Fabrication, shall be credited with the cost of fabricated fuel assemblies delivered for use in refueling or to be carried in stock as spares. It shall also include the original cost of fabricated fuel assemblies purchased in completed form. This account shall also include the original cost of partially irradiated fuel assemblies being held in stock for reinsertion in a reactor which had been transferred from account 120.3, Nuclear Fuel Assemblies in Reactor.

B. When fuel assemblies included in this account are inserted in a reactor, this account shall be credited and account 120.3, Nuclear Fuel Assemblies in Reactor, debited for the cost of such assemblies.

C. This account shall also include the cost of nuclear materials and byproduct materials being held for future use and not actually in process in account 120.1, Nuclear Fuel in Process of Refinement, Conversion, Enrichment, and Fabrication.

A. This account shall include the cost of nuclear fuel assemblies when inserted in a reactor for the production of electricity. The amounts included herein shall be transferred from account 120.2, Nuclear Fuel Materials and Assemblies-Stock Account, except for the initial core loading which will be transferred directly from account 120.1.

B. Upon removal of fuel assemblies from a reactor, the original cost of the assemblies removed shall be transferred to account 120.4, Spent Nuclear Fuel or account 120.2, Nuclear Fuel Materials and Assemblies-Stock Account, as appropriate.

A. This account shall include the original cost of nuclear fuel assemblies, in the process of cooling, transferred from account 120.3, Nuclear Fuel Assemblies in Reactor, upon removal from a reactor pending reprocessing.

B. This account shall be credited and account 120.5, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Nuclear Fuel Assemblies, debited for fuel assemblies, after the cooling period is over, at the cost recorded in this account.

A. This account shall be credited and account 518, Nuclear fuel expense shall be debited for the amortization of the net cost of nuclear fuel assemblies used in the production of energy. The net cost of nuclear fuel assemblies subject to amortization shall be the original cost of nuclear fuel assemblies, plus or less the expected net salvage value of uranium, plutonium, and other by-products.

B. This account shall be credited with the net salvage value of uranium, plutonium, and other nuclear by-products when such items are sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of. Account 120.1, Nuclear Fuel in Process of Refinement, Conversion, Enrichment, and Fabrication, shall be debited with the net salvage value of nuclear materials to be reprocessed. Account 157, Nuclear Materials Held for Sale shall be debited for the net salvage value of nuclear materials not to be reprocessed but to be sold or otherwise disposed of and account 120.2, will be debited with the net salvage value of nuclear materials that will be held for future use and not actually in process, in account 120.1, Nuclear Fuel in Process of Refinement, Conversion, Enrichment, and Fabrication.

C. This account shall be debited and account 120.4, Spent Nuclear Fuel, shall be credited with the cost of fuel assemblies at the end of the cooling period.

A. This account shall include the amount recorded under capital leases for nuclear fuel leased from others for use by the utility in its utility operations.

B. Records shall be maintained with respect to each capital lease reflecting: (1) Name of lessor, (2) basic details of lease, (3) terminal date, (4) original cost or fair market value of nuclear fuel leased, (5) future minimum lease payments, (6) executory costs, (7) present value of minimum lease payments, (8) the amount representing interest and the interest rate used, and (9) expenses paid.

A. This account shall include the book cost of land, structures, equipment, or other tangible or intangible property owned by the utility, but not used in utility service and not properly includible in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use. This account shall also include, where applicable, amounts recorded for asset retirement costs associated with nonutility plant.

B. This account shall also include the amount recorded under capital leases for property leased from others and used by the utility in its nonutility operations. Records shall be maintained with respect to each lease reflecting: (1) name of lessor, (2) basic details of lease, (3) terminal date, (4) original cost or fair market value of property leased, (5) future minimum lease payments, (6) executory costs, (7) present value of minimum lessee payments, (8) the amount representing interest and the interest rate used, and (9) expenses paid.

C. This account shall be subdivided so as to show the amount of property used in operations which are nonutility in character but nevertheless constitute a distinct operating activity of the company (such as operation of an ice department where such activity is not classed as a utility) and the amount of miscellaneous property not used in operations. The records in support of each subaccount shall be maintained so as to show an appropriate classification of the property.

This account shall include the accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization applicable to nonutility property.

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by associated companies and investment advances to such companies, including interest accrued thereon when such interest is not subject to current settlement, provided that the investment does not relate to a subsidiary company. (If the investment relates to a subsidiary company it shall be included in account 123.1, Investment in Subsidiary Companies.) Include herein the offsetting entry to the recording of amortization of discount or premium on interest bearing investments. (See account 419, Interest and Dividend Income.)

B. This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show the investment in securities of, and advances to, each associated company together with full particulars regarding any of such investments that are pledged.

A. This account shall include the cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by subsidiary companies and investment advances to such companies, including interest accrued thereon when such interest is not subject to current settlement plus the equity in undistributed earnings or losses of such subsidiary companies since acquisition. This account shall be credited with any dividends declared by such subsidiaries.

B. This account shall be maintained in such a manner as to show separately for each subsidiary: the cost of such investments in the securities of the subsidiary at the time of acquisition; the amount of equity in the subsidiary's undistributed net earnings or net losses since acquisition; advances or loans to such subsidiary; and full particulars regarding any such investments that are pledged.
