
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by nonassociated companies, investment advances to such companies, and any investments not accounted for elsewhere. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. Include also the offsetting entry to the recording of amortization of discount or premium on interest bearing investments. (account 419, interest and dividend income.)

B. The cost of capital stock of the utility reacquired by it under a definite plan for resale pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors may, if permitted by statutes, be included in a separate subdivision of this account. (See also account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, and account 217, Reacquired Capital Stock.)

C. The records shall be maintained in such manner as to show the amount of each investment and the investment advances to each person.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments held in sinking funds. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. A separate account, with appropriate title, shall be kept for each sinking fund. Transfers from this account to special deposit accounts may be made as necessary for the purpose of paying matured sinking-fund obligations, or obligations called for redemption but not presented, or the interest thereon.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments which have been segregated in a special fund for the purpose of identifying such assets with the accumulated provisions for depreciation. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments of any investments of any fund maintained pursuant to the requirements of a federal regulatory body, as the cash and investments segregated for the purpose of identifying the specific assets associated with account 215.1, appropriated retained earnings-amortization reserve, federal. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments which have been segregated in special funds for insurance, employee pensions, savings, relief, hospital, and other purposes not provided for elsewhere. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. A separate account with appropriate title, shall be kept for each fund.
