
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Special Instructions for Current and Accrued Assets.

Current and accrued assets are cash, those assets which are readily convertible into cash or are held for current use in operations or construction, current claims against others, payment of which is reasonably assured, and amounts accruing to the utility which are subject to current settlement, except such items for which accounts other than those designated as current and accrued assets are provided. There shall not be included in the group of accounts designated as current and accrued assets any item, the amount or collectibility of which is not reasonably assured, unless an adequate provision for possible loss has been made therefor. Items of current character but of doubtful value may be written down and for record purposes carried in these accounts at nominal value.

This account shall include the amount of cash on hand and in banks and cash advanced to officers, agents, employees, and others as petty cash or working funds. Special cash deposits for payment of interest, dividends or other special purposes shall be included in this account in separate subdivisions which shall specify the purpose for which each such special deposit is made.

This account shall include the amount of current cash funds except working funds.

This account shall include special deposits with fiscal agents or others for the payment of interest.

This account shall include special deposits with fiscal agents or others for the payment of dividends.

This account shall include deposits with fiscal agents or others for special purposes other than the payment of interest and dividends. Such special deposits may include cash deposited with federal, state, or municipal authorities as a guaranty for the fulfillment of obligations; cash deposited with trustees to be held until mortgaged property sold, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of is replaced; cash realized from the sale of the accounting utility's securities and deposited with trustees to be held until invested in property of the utility, etc. Entries to this account shall specify the purpose for which the deposit is made.

This account shall include cash advanced to officers, agents, employees, and others as petty cash or working funds.

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments, such as demand and time loans, bankers' acceptances, United States Treasury certificates, marketable securities, and other similar investments, acquired for the purpose of temporarily investing cash.

B. This account shall be so maintained as to show separately temporary cash investments in securities of associated companies and of others. Records shall be kept of any pledged investments.

This account shall include the book cost, not includible elsewhere, of all collectible obligations in the form of notes receivable and similar evidences (except interest coupons) of money due on demand or within one year from the date of issue, except, however, notes receivable from associated companies. (See account 136, Temporary Cash Investments, and account 145, Notes Receivable from Associated Companies.)

A. This account shall include amounts due from customers for utility service, and for merchandising, jobbing and contract work. This account shall not include amounts due from associated companies.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to permit ready segregation of the amounts due for merchandising, jobbing and contract work.

A. This account shall include amounts due the utility upon open accounts, other than amounts due from associated companies and from customers for utility services and merchandising, jobbing and contract work.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to show separately amounts due on subscriptions to capital stock and from officers and employees, but the account shall not include amounts advanced to officers or others as working funds. (See account 135, Working Funds.)

A. This account shall be credited with amounts provided for losses on accounts receivable which may become uncollectible, and also with collections on accounts previously charged hereto. Concurrent charges shall be made to account 904, Uncollectible Accounts, for amounts applicable to utility operations, and to corresponding accounts for other operations. Records shall be maintained so as to show the write-offs of account receivable for each utility department.

B. This account shall be subdivided to show the provision applicable to the following classes of accounts receivable:

A. These accounts shall include notes and drafts upon which associated companies are liable, and which mature and are expected to be paid in full not later than one year from the date of issue, together with any interest thereon, and debit balances subject to current settlement in open accounts with associated companies. Items which do not bear a specified due date but which have been carried for more than twelve months and items which are not paid within twelve months from due date shall be transferred to account 123, Investment in Associated Companies.

B. A public utility or licensee participating in a cash management program must maintain supporting documentation for all deposits into, borrowings from, interest income from, and interest expense to such program. Cash management programs include all agreements in which funds in excess of the daily needs of the public utility or licensee along with the excess funds of the public utility's or licensee's parent, affiliated and subsidiary companies are concentrated, consolidated, or otherwise made available for use by other entities within the corporate group. The written documentation must include the following information:

(1) For deposits with and withdrawals from the cash management program: the date of the deposit or withdrawal, the amount of the deposit or withdrawal, and the maturity date, if any, of the deposit;

(2) For borrowings from a cash management program: the date of the borrowing, the amount of the borrowing, and the maturity date, if any, of the borrowing;

(3) The security, if any, provided by the cash management program for repayment of deposits into the cash management program and the security required, if any, by the cash management program in support of borrowings from the program; and

(4) The monthly balance of the cash management program.

C. The public utility or licensee must maintain current and up-to-date copies of the documents authorizing the establishment of the cash management program including the following:

(1) The duties and responsibilities of the administrator and the public utilities or licensees in the cash management program;

(2) The restrictions on deposits or borrowings by public utilities or licensees in the cash management program;

(3) The interest rate, including the method used to determine the interest earning rates and interest borrowing rates for deposits into and borrowings from the program; and

(4) The method used to allocate interest income and expenses among public utilities or licensees in the program.

This account shall include the book cost of fuel on hand.

A. This account may include the cost of labor and of supplies used and expenses incurred in unloading fuel from the shipping medium and in the handling thereof prior to its use, if such expenses are sufficiently significant in amount to warrant being treated as a part of the cost of fuel inventory rather than being charged direct to expense as incurred.

B. Amounts included herein shall be charged to expense as the fuel is used to the end that the balance herein shall not exceed the expenses attributable to the inventory of fuel on hand.

This account shall include the book cost of any residuals produced in production or manufacturing processes.

A. This account shall include the cost of materials purchased primarily for use in the utility business for construction, operation and maintenance purposes. For Nonmajor utilities, this account shall include the cost of fuel on hand and unapplied materials and supplies (except meters and house regulators). For both Major and Nonmajor utilities, it shall include also the book cost of materials recovered in connection with construction, maintenance or the retirement of property, such materials being credited to construction, maintenance or accumulated depreciation provision, respectively, and included herein as follows:

(1) Reusable materials consisting of large individual items shall be included in this account at original cost, estimated if not known. The cost of repairing such items shall be charged to the maintenance account appropriate for the previous use.

(2) Reusable materials consisting of relatively small items, the identity of which (from the date of original installation to the final abandonment or sale thereof) cannot be ascertained without undue refinement in accounting, shall be included in this account at current prices new for such items. The cost of repairing such items shall be charged to the appropriate expense account as indicated by previous use.

(3) Scrap and nonusable materials included in this account shall be carried at the estimated net amount realizable therefrom. The difference between the amounts realized for scrap and nonusable materials sold and the net amount at which the materials were carried in this account, as far as practicable, shall be adjusted to the accounts credited when the materials were charged to this account.

B. Materials and supplies issued shall be credited hereto and charged to the appropriate construction, operating expense, or other account on the basis of a unit price determined by the use of cumulative average, first-in-first-out, or such other method of inventory accounting as conforms with accepted accounting standards consistently applied.

C. For Nonmajor utilities, inventories of materials, supplies, fuel, etc., shall be taken at least annually and the necessary adjustments shall be made to bring this account into agreement with the actual inventories. In effecting the adjustments, large differences which can be assigned to important classes of materials shall be equitably adjusted among the accounts to which such classes of materials have been charged since the previous inventory. Other differences shall be equitably apportioned among the accounts to which materials have been charged.

This account shall include the book cost of materials and supplies and appliances and equipment held primarily for merchandising, jobbing and contract work. The principles prescribed in accounting for utility materials and supplies shall be observed in respect to items carried in this account.

This account shall include the book cost of materials and supplies held primarily for nonutility purposes. The principles prescribed in accounting for utility materials and supplies shall be observed in respect to items carried in this account.

This account shall include the net salvage value of uranium, plutonium and other nuclear materials held by the company for sale or other disposition and that are not to be reused by the company in its electric utility operations. This account shall be debited and account 120.5, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Nuclear Fuel Assemblies, credited for such net salvage value. Any difference between the amount recorded in this account and the actual amount realized from the sale of materials shall be debited or credited, as appropriate, to account 518, Nuclear Fuel Expense at the time of such sale.
