
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the cost of allowances owned by the utility but withheld by the Environmental Protection Agency. (General Instruction No. 21.)

B. The inventory cost of the allowances released by the Environmental Protection Agency for use by the utility shall be transferred to Account 158.1, Allowance Inventory.

C. The underlying records of this account shall be maintained in sufficient detail so as to identify each allowance included; the origin of each allowance; and the acquisition cost, if any, of the allowances.

A. This account shall include the cost of supervision, labor and expenses incurred in the operation of general storerooms, including purchasing, storage, handling and distribution of materials and supplies.

B. This account shall be cleared by adding to the cost of materials and supplies issued a suitable loading charge which will distribute the expense equitably over stores issues. The balance in the account at the close of the year shall not exceed the amount of stores expenses reasonably attributable to the inventory of materials and supplies exclusive of fuel, as any amount applicable to fuel costs should be included in account 152, Fuel Stock Expenses Undistributed.

This account shall include amounts representing prepayments of insurance, rents, taxes, interest and miscellaneous items, and shall be kept or supported in such manner as to disclose the amount of each class of prepayment.

This account shall include the amount of interest on bonds, mortgages, notes, commercial paper, loans, open accounts, deposits, etc., the payment of which is reasonably assured, and the amount of dividends declared or guaranteed on stocks owned.

This account shall include rents receivable or accrued on property rented or leased by the utility to others.

At the option of the utility, the estimated amount accrued for service rendered, but not billed at the end of any accounting period, may be included herein. In case accruals are made for unbilled revenues, they shall be made likewise for unbilled expenses, such as for the purchase of energy.

This account shall include the book cost of all other current and accrued assets, appropriately designated and supported so as to show the nature of each asset included herein.

This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument assets not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 421, miscellaneous nonoperating income, shall be credited or debited, as appropriate, with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

A. This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of derivative instrument assets designated by the utility as cash flow or fair value hedges.

B. When a utility designates a derivative instrument asset as a cash flow hedge it will record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to account 219, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

C. When a utility designates a derivative instrument as a fair value hedge it shall record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

This account shall include expenses related to the issuance or assumption of debt securities. Amounts recorded in this account shall be amortized over the life of each respective issue under a plan which will distribute the amount equitably over the life of the security. The amortization shall be on a monthly basis, and the amounts thereof shall be charged to account 428, Amortization of Debt Discount and Expense. Any unamortized amounts outstanding at the time that the related debt is prematurely reacquired shall be accounted for as indicated in General Instruction 17.

A. When authorized or directed by the Commission, this account shall include extraordinary losses, which could not reasonably have been anticipated and which are not covered by insurance or other provisions, such as unforeseen damages to property.

B. Application to the Commission for permission to use this account shall be accompanied by a statement giving a complete explanation with respect to the items which it is proposed to include herein, the period over which, and the accounts to which it is proposed to write off the charges, and other pertinent information.

A. This account shall include: (1) Nonrecurring costs of studies and analyses mandated by regulatory bodies related to plants in service, transferred from account 183, Preliminary Survey and Investigation Charges, and not resulting in construction; and (2) when authorized by the Commission, significant unrecovered costs of plant facilities where construction has been cancelled or which have been prematurely retired.

B. This account shall be credited and account 407, Amortization of Property Losses, Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, shall be debited over the period specified by the Commission.

C. Any additional costs incurred, relative to the cancellation or premature retirement, may be included in this account and amortized over the remaining period of the original amortization period. Should any gains or recoveries be realized relative to the cancelled or prematurely retired plant, such amounts shall be used to reduce the unamortized amount of the costs recorded herein.

D. In the event that the recovery of costs included herein is disallowed in the rate proceedings, the disallowed costs shall be charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or account 435, Extraordinary Deductions, in the year of such disallowance.
