
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Special Instructions for Current and Accrued Liabilities.

Current and accrued liabilities are those obligations which have either matured or which become due within one year from the date thereof: except, however, bonds, receivers' certificates and similar obligations which shall be classified as long-term debt until date of maturity; accrued taxes, such as income taxes, which shall be classified as accrued liabilities even though payable more than one year from date; compensation awards, which shall be classified as current liabilities regardless of date due; and minor amounts payable in installments which may be classified as current liabilities. If a liability is due more than one year from date of issuance or assumption by the utility, it shall be credited to a long-term debt account appropriate for the transaction, except, however, the current liabilities previously mentioned.

This account shall include the portion not due within one year, of the obligations recorded for the amounts applicable to leased property recorded as assets in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases, account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel under Capital Leases, or account 121, Nonutility Property.

No amounts shall be credited to these accounts unless authorized by a regulatory authority or authorities to be collected in a utility's rate levels.

A. This account shall include amounts reserved by the utility for losses through accident, fire, flood, or other hazards to its own property or property leased from others, not covered by insurance. The amounts charged to account 924, Property Insurance, or other appropriate accounts to cover such risks shall be credited to this account. A schedule of risks covered shall be maintained, giving a description of the property involved, the character of the risks covered and the rates used.

B. Charges shall be made to this account for losses covered, not to exceed the account balance. Details of these charges shall be maintained according to the year the casualty occurred which gave rise to the loss.

A. This account shall be credited with amounts charged to account 925, Injuries and Damages, or other appropriate accounts, to meet the probable liability, not covered by insurance, for deaths or injuries to employees and others and for damages to property neither owned nor held under lease by the utility.

B. When liability for any injury or damage is admitted by the utility either voluntarily or because of the decision of a court or other lawful authority, such as a workmen's compensation board, the admitted liability shall be charged to this account and credited to the appropriate current liability account. Details of these charges shall be maintained according to the year the casualty occurred which gave rise to the loss.

A. This account shall include provisions made by the utility and amounts contributed by employees for pensions, accident and death benefits, savings, relief, hospital and other provident purposes, where the funds are included in the assets of the utility either in general or in segregated fund accounts.

B. Amounts paid by the utility for the purposes for which this liability is established shall be charged hereto.

C. A separate account shall be kept for each kind of provision included herein.

A. This account shall include all operating provisions which are not provided for elsewhere.

B. This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show the amount of each separate provision and the nature and amounts of the debits and credits thereto.

A. This account shall be credited with amounts charged to Account 449.1, Provisions for Rate Refunds, to provide for estimated refunds where the utility is collecting amounts in rates subject to refund.

B. When refund of any amount recorded in this account is ordered by a regulatory authority, such amount shall be changed hereto and credited to account 242, Miscellaneous Current and Accrued Liabilities.

C. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be kept so as to identify each amount recorded by the respective rate filing docket number.

A. This account shall include the amount of liabilities for the recognition of asset retirement obligations related to electric utility plant and nonutility plant that gives rise to the obligations. This account shall be credited for the amount of the liabilities for asset retirement obligations with amounts charged to the appropriate electric utility plant accounts or nonutility plant account to record the related asset retirement costs.

B. The utility shall charge the accretion expense to account 411.10, Accretion expense, for electric utility plant, account 413, Expenses of electric plant leased to others, for electric plant leased to others, or account 421, Miscellaneous nonoperating income, for nonutility plant, as appropriate, and credit account 230, Asset retirement obligations.

C. This account shall be debited with amounts paid to settle the asset retirement obligations recorded herein.

D. The utility shall clear from this account any gains or losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations in accordance with the instructions prescribed in General Instruction 25.

This account shall include the face value of all notes, drafts, acceptances, or other similar evidences of indebtedness, payable on demand or within a time not exceeding one year from date of issue, to other than associated companies.

This account shall include all amounts payable by the utility within one year, which are not provided for in other accounts.

These accounts shall include amounts owing to associated companies on notes, drafts, acceptances, or other similar evidences of indebtedness, and open accounts payable on demand or not more than one year from date of issue or creation.

This account shall include all amounts deposited with the utility by customers as security for the payment of bills.

A. This account shall be credited with the amount of taxes accrued during the accounting period, corresponding debits being made to the appropriate accounts for tax charges. Such credits may be based upon estimates, but from time to time during the year as the facts become known, the amount of the periodic credits shall be adjusted so as to include as nearly as can be determined in each year the taxes applicable thereto. Any amount representing a prepayment of taxes applicable to the period subsequent to the date of the balance sheet, shall be shown under account 165, Prepayments.

B. If accruals for taxes are found to be insufficient or excessive, correction therefor shall be made through current tax accruals.

C. Accruals for taxes shall be based upon the net amounts payable after credit for any discounts, and shall not include any amounts for interest on tax deficiencies or refunds. Interest received on refunds shall be credited to account 419, Interest and Dividend Income, and interest paid on deficiencies shall be charged to account 431, Other Interest Expense.

D. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be kept so as to show for each class of taxes, the amount accrued, the basis for the accrual, the accounts to which charged, and the amount of tax paid.

This account shall include the amount of interest accrued but not matured on all liabilities of the utility not including, however, interest which is added to the principal of the debt on which incurred. Supporting records shall be maintained so as to show the amount of interest accrued on each obligation.

This account shall include the amount of dividends which have been declared but not paid. Dividends shall be credited to this account when they become a liability.

This account shall include the amount of long-term debt (including any obligation for premiums) matured and unpaid, without specific agreement for extension of the time of payment and bonds called for redemption but not presented.

This account shall include the amount of matured interest on long-term debt or other obligations of the utility at the date of the balance sheet unless such interest is added to the principal of the debt on which incurred.

This account shall include the amount of taxes collected by the utility through payroll deductions or otherwise pending transmittal of such taxes to the proper taxing authority.

This account shall include the amount of all other current and accrued liabilities not provided for elsewhere appropriately designated and supported so as to show the nature of each liability.

This account shall include the portion, due within one year, of the obligations recorded for the amounts applicable to leased property recorded as assets in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases, account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel under Capital Leases (Major only), or account 121, Nonutility Property.

This account shall include the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument liabilities not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 426, other deductions, shall be debited or credited as appropriate with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

A. This account shall include the change in the fair value of derivative instrument liabilities designated by the utility as cash flow or fair value hedges.

B. A utility shall record the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument liability related to a cash flow hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to account 219, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

C. A utility shall record the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument liability related to a fair value hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

This account shall include advances by customers for construction which are to be refunded either wholly or in part. When a customer is refunded the entire amount to which he is entitled, according to the agreement or rule under which the advance was made, the balance, if any, remaining in this account shall be credited to the respective plant account.

This account shall include advance billings and receipts and other deferred credit items, not provided for elsewhere, including amounts which cannot be entirely cleared or disposed of until additional information has been received.
