
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the amounts of regulatory liabilities, not includible in other accounts, imposed on the utility by the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. (Definition No. 30.)

B. The amounts included in this account are to be established by those credits which would have been included in net income, or accumulated other comprehensive income, determinations in the current period under the general requirements of the Uniform System of Accounts but for it being probable that: Such items will be included in a different period(s) for purposes of developing the rates that the utility is authorized to charge for its utility services; or refunds to customers, not provided for in other accounts, will be required. When specific identification of the particular source of the regulatory liability cannot be made or when the liability arises from revenues collected pursuant to tariffs on file at a regulatory agency, account 407.3, regulatory debits, shall be debited. The amounts recorded in this account generally are to be credited to the same account that would have been credited if included in income when earned except: All regulatory liabilities established through the use of account 407.3 shall be credited to account 407.4, regulatory credits; and in the case of refunds, a cash account or other appropriate account should be credited when the obligation is satisfied.

C. If it is later determined that the amounts recorded in this account will not be returned to customers through rates or refunds, such amounts shall be credited to Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 434, Extraordinary Income, as appropriate, in the year such determination is made.

D. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish full information as to the nature and amount of each regulatory liability included in this account, including justification for inclusion of such amounts in this account.

A. This account shall be credited with all investment tax credits deferred by companies which have elected to follow deferral accounting, partial or full, rather than recognizing in the income statement the total benefits of the tax credit as realized. After such election, a company may not transfer amounts from this account, except as authorized herein and in accounts 411.4, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Utility Operations, 411.5, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Nonutility Operations, and 420, Investment Tax Credits, or with approval of the Commission.

B. Where the company's accounting provides that investment tax credits are to be passed on to customers, this account shall be debited and account 411.4 credited with a proportionate amount determined in relation to the average useful life of electric utility property to which the tax credits relate or such lesser period of time as allowed by a regulatory agency having rate jurisdiction. If, however, the deferral procedure provides that investment tax credits are not to be passed on to customers, the proportionate restorations to income shall be credited to account 420.

C. Subdivisions of this account by department shall be maintained for deferred investment tax credits that are related to nonelectric utility or other operations. Contra entries affecting such account subdivisions shall be appropriately recorded in account 413, Expenses of Electric Plant Leased to Others; or account 414, Other Utility Operating Income. Use of deferral or nondeferral accounting procedures adopted for nonelectric utility or other operations are to be followed on a consistent basis.

D. Separate records for electric and nonelectric utility or other operations shall be maintained identifying the properties giving rise to the investment tax credits for each year with the weighted-average service life of such properties and any unused balances of such credits. Such records are not necessary unless the tax credits are deferred.

This account shall include gains from the sale or other disposition of property previously recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof, where such gains are significant and are to be amortized over a period of 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by the Commission. The amortization of the amounts in this account shall be made by credits to account 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant. (See account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use.)

This account shall include the amounts of discount realized upon reacquisition or redemption of long-term debt. The amounts in this account shall be amortized in accordance with General Instruction 17.
