
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter C - Accounts, Federal Power Act
#### PART 101 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES AND LICENSEES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Comprehensive Interperiod Income Tax Allocation.

Before using the deferred tax accounts provided below refer to General Instruction 18.

The text of these accounts are designed primarily to cover deferrals of Federal income taxes. However, they are also to be used when making deferrals of state and local income taxes. Public utilities and licensees which, in addition to an electric utility department, have another utility department, gas, water, etc., and nonutility property and which have deferred taxes on income with respect thereto shall separately classify such deferrals in the accounts provided below so as to allow ready identification of items relating to each utility Deductions.

A. This account shall include tax deferrals resulting from adoption of the principles of comprehensive interperiod tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts that relate to property for which the utility has availed itself of the use of accelerated (5-year) amortization of (1) certified defense facilities as permitted by Section 168 of the Internal Revenue Code and (2) certified pollution control facilities as permitted by Section 169 of the Internal Revenue Code.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in this account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of plant on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax expense, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited. When the remaining balance, after consideration of any related income tax expense, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted. When plant is disposed of by transfer to a wholly owned subsidiary the related balance in this account shall also be transferred. When the disposition relates to retirement of an item or items under a group method of depreciation where there is no tax effect in the year of retirement, no entries are required in this account if it can be determined that the related balances would be necessary to be retained to offset future group item tax deficiencies.

A. This account shall include the tax deferrals resulting from adoption of the principle of comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts which are related to all property other than accelerated amortization property.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in this account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale, exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of plant on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax expense, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Income Taxes Deferred in Prior Years-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Income Taxes Deferred in Prior Years-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, shall be credited. When the remaining balance after consideration of any related tax expenses, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted. When plant disposed of by transfer to a wholly owned subsidiary, the related balance in this account shall also be transferred. When the disposition relates to retirement of an item or items under a group method of depreciation where there is no tax effect in the year of retirement, no entries are required in this account if it can be determined that the related balance would be necessary to be retained to offset future group item tax deficiencies.

A. This account shall include all credit tax deferrals resulting from the adoption of the principles of comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts other than those deferrals which are includible in Accounts 281, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Accelerated Amortization Property and 282, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other Property.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1 Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to items described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with tax effects related to items described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. Records with respect to entries to this account, as described above, and the account balance, shall be so maintained as to show the factors of calculation with respect to each annual amount of the item or class of items.

E. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in the account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or to any other account or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account, without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale, exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of items on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax effect, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Provision For Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision For Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited. When the remaining balance, after consideration of any related tax expenses, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted.

When plant is disposed of by transfer to a wholly owned subsidiary, the related balance in this account shall also be transferred. When the disposition relates to retirement of an item or items under a group method of depreciation where there is no tax effect in the year of retirement, no entries are required in this account if it can be determined that the related balance would be necessary to be retained to offset future group item tax deficiencies.

This account shall include all fees paid to federal or state governments for the privilege of incorporation and expenditures incident to organizing the corporation, partnership, or other enterprise and putting it into readiness to do business.

A. This account shall include amounts paid to the federal government, to a state or to a political subdivision thereof in consideration for franchises, consents, water power licenses, or certificates, running in perpetuity or for a specified term of more than one year, together with necessary and reasonable expenses incident to procuring such franchises, consents, water power licenses, or certificates of permission and approval, including expenses of organizing and merging separate corporations, where statutes require, solely for the purpose of acquiring franchises.

B. If a franchise, consent, water power license or certificate is acquired by assignment, the charge to this account in respect thereof shall not exceed the amount paid therefor by the utility to the assignor, nor shall it exceed the amount paid by the original grantee, plus the expense of acquisition to such grantee. Any excess of the amount actually paid by the utility over the amount above specified shall be charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions.

C. When any franchise has expired, the book cost thereof shall be credited hereto and charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or to account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Electric Utility Plant (for Nonmajor utilities, account 110, Accumulated Provision for Depreciation and Amortization of Electric Plant), as appropriate.

D. Records supporting this account shall be kept so as to show separately the book cost of each franchise or consent.

A. This account shall include the cost of patent rights, licenses, privileges, and other intangible property necessary or valuable in the conduct of utility operations and not specifically chargeable to any other account.

B. When any item included in this account is retired or expires, the book cost thereof shall be credited hereto and charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Electric Utility Plant (for Nonmajor utilities, account 110, Accumulated Provision for Depreciation and Amortization of Electric Plant), as appropriate.

C. This account shall be maintained in such a manner that the utility can furnish full information with respect to the amounts included herein.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with steam-power generation. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with steam-power generation. (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of furnaces, boilers, coal and ash handling and coal preparing equipment, steam and feed water piping, boiler apparatus and accessories used in the production of steam, mercury, or other vapor, to be used primarily for generating electricity.

This account shall include the cost installed of steam engines, reciprocating or rotary, and their associated auxiliaries; and engine-driven main generators, except turbogenerator units.

This account shall include the cost installed of main turbine-driven units and accessory equipment used in generating electricity by steam.

This account shall include the cost installed of auxiliary generating apparatus, conversion equipment, and equipment used primarily in connection with the control and switching of electric energy produced by steam power, and the protection of electric circuits and equipment, except electric motors used to drive equipment included in other accounts. Such motors shall be included in the account in which the equipment with which they are associated is included.

This account shall include the cost installed of miscellaneous equipment in and about the steam generating plant devoted to general station use, and which is not properly includible in any of the foregoing steam-power production accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the steam production function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with nuclear power generation. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used and useful in connection with nuclear power generation. (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the installed cost of reactors, reactor fuel handling and storage equipment, pressurizing equipment, coolant charging equipment, purification and discharging equipment, radioactive waste treatment and disposal equipment, boilers, steam and feed water piping, reactor and boiler apparatus and accessories and other reactor plant equipment used in the production of steam to be used primarily for generating electricity, including auxiliary superheat boilers and associated equipment in systems which change temperatures or pressure of steam from the reactor system.

This account shall include the cost installed of main turbine-driven units and accessory equipment used in generating electricity by steam.

This account shall include the cost installed of auxiliary generating apparatus, conversion equipment, and equipment used primarily in connection with the control and switching of electric energy produced by nuclear power, and the protection of electric circuits and equipment, except electric motors used to drive equipment included in other accounts. Such motors shall be included in the account in which the equipment with which they are associated is included.

This account shall include the cost installed of miscellaneous equipment in and about the nuclear generating plant devoted to general station use, and which is not properly includible in any of the foregoing nuclear-power production accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the nuclear production function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with hydraulic power generation. (See electric plant instruction 7.) For Major utilities, it shall also include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with (1) the conservation of fish and wildlife, and (2) recreation. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above.

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with hydraulic power generation. (See electric plant instruction 8.) For Major utilities, it shall also include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with (1) the conservation of fish and wildlife, and (2) recreation. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above.

This account shall include the cost in place of facilities used for impounding, collecting, storage, diversion, regulation, and delivery of water used primarily for generating electricity. For Major utilities, it shall also include the cost in place of facilities used in connection with (a) the conservation of fish and wildlife, and (b) recreation. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above. (See electric plant instruction 8C.)

This account shall include the cost installed of water wheels and hydraulic turbines (from connection with penstock or flume to tailrace) and generators driven thereby devoted to the production of electricity by water power or for the production of power for industrial or other purposes, if the equipment used for such purposes is a part of the hydraulic power plant works.

This account shall include the cost installed of auxiliary generating apparatus, conversion equipment, and equipment used primarily in connection with the control and switching of electric energy produced by hydraulic power and the protection of electric circuits and equipment, except electric motors used to drive equipment included in other accounts, such motors being included in the account in which the equipment with which they are associated is included.

This account shall include the cost installed of miscellaneous equipment in and about the hydroelectric generating plant which is devoted to general station use and is not properly includible in other hydraulic production accounts. For Major utilities, it shall also include the cost of equipment used in connection with (a) the conservation of fish and wildlife, and (b) recreation. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above.

This account shall include the cost of roads, railroads, trails, bridges, and trestles used primarily as production facilities. It includes also those roads, etc., necessary to connect the plant with highway transportation systems, except when such roads are dedicated to public use and maintained by public authorities.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the hydraulic production function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with other power generation. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with other power generation. (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of fuel handling and storage equipment used between the point of fuel delivery to the station and the intake pipe through which fuel is directly drawn to the engine, also the cost of gas producers and accessories devoted to the production of gas for use in prime movers driving main electric generators.

This account shall include the cost installed of Diesel or other prime movers devoted to the generation of electric energy, together with their auxiliaries.

This account shall include the cost installed of Diesel or other power driven main generators.

This account shall include the cost installed of auxiliary generating apparatus, conversion equipment, and equipment used primarily in connection with the control and switching of electric energy produced in other power generating stations, and the protection of electric circuits and equipment, except electric motors used to drive equipment included in other accounts. Such motors shall be included in the account in which the equipment with which it is associated is included.

This account shall include the cost installed of miscellaneous equipment in and about the other power generating plant, devoted to general station use, and not properly includible in any of the foregoing other power production accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the other production function.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of energy storage equipment used to store energy for load managing purposes. Where energy storage equipment can perform more than one function or purpose, the cost of the equipment shall be allocated among production, transmission, and distribution plant based on the services provided by the asset and the allocation of the asset's cost through rates approved by a relevant regulatory agency. Reallocation of the cost of equipment recorded in this account shall be in accordance with Electric Plant Instruction No. 12, Transfers of Property.

B. Labor costs and power purchased to energize the equipment are includible on the first installation only. The cost of removing, relocating and resetting energy storage equipment shall not be charged to this account but to accounts Account 548.1, Operation of Energy Storage Equipment, and Account 553.1, Maintenance of Energy Storage Equipment., as appropriate.

C. The records supporting this account shall show, by months, the function(s) each energy storage asset supports or performs.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with transmission operations. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

A. This account shall include the cost installed of energy storage equipment used to store energy for load managing purposes. Where energy storage equipment can perform more than one function or purposes, the cost of the equipment shall be allocated among production, transmission, and distribution plant based on the services provided by the asset and the allocation of the asset's cost through rates approved by a relevant regulatory agency. Reallocation of the cost of equipment recorded in this account shall be in accordance with Electric Plant Instruction No. 12, Transfers of Property.

B. Labor costs and power purchased to energize the equipment are includible on the first installation only. The cost of removing, relocating and resetting energy storage equipment shall not be charged to this account but to Account 562.1, Operation of Energy Storage Equipment, and Account, 570.1, Maintenance of Energy Storage Equipment, as appropriate.

C. The records supporting this account shall show, by months, the function(s) each energy storage asset supports or performs.

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with transmission operations. (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of transforming, conversion, and switching equipment used for the purpose of changing the characteristics of electricity in connection with its transmission or for controlling transmission circuits.

This account shall include the cost installed of towers and appurtenant fixtures used for supporting overhead transmission conductors.

This account shall include the cost installed of transmission line poles, wood, steel, concrete, or other material, together with appurtenant fixtures used for supporting overhead transmission conductors.

This account shall include the cost installed of overhead conductors and devices used for transmission purposes.

This account shall include the cost installed of underground conduit and tunnels used for housing transmission cables or wires. (See electric plant instruction 14.)

This account shall include the cost installed of underground conductors and devices used for transmission purposes.

This account shall include the cost of roads, trails, and bridges used primarily as transmission facilities.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the transmission plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with distribution operations. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with distribution operations. (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of station equipment, including transformer banks, etc., which are used for the purpose of changing the characteristics of electricity in connection with its distribution.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of energy storage equipment used to store energy for load managing purposes. Where energy storage equipment can perform more than one function or purpose, the cost of the equipment shall be allocated among production, transmission, and distribution plant based on the services provided by the asset and the allocation of the asset's cost through rates approved by a relevant regulatory agency. Reallocation of the cost of equipment recorded in this account shall be in accordance with Electric Plant Instruction No. 12, Transfers of Property.

B. Labor costs and power purchased to energize the equipment are includible on the first installation only. The cost of removing, relocating and resetting energy storage equipment shall not be charged to this account but to Account 582.1, Operation of Energy Storage Equipment, and Account, 592.1, Maintenance of Energy Storage Equipment, as appropriate.

C. The records supporting this account shall show, by months, the function(s) each energy storage asset supports or performs.

This account shall include the cost installed of poles, towers, and appurtenant fixtures used for supporting overhead distribution conductors and service wires.

This account shall include the cost installed of overhead conductors and devices used for distribution purposes.

This account shall include the cost installed of underground conduit and tunnels used for housing distribution cables or wires.

This account shall include the cost installed of underground conductors and devices used for distribution purposes.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of overhead and underground distribution line transformers and poletype and underground voltage regulators owned by the utility, for use in transforming electricity to the voltage at which it is to be used by the customer, whether actually in service or held in reserve.

B. When a transformer is permanently retired from service, the original installed cost thereof shall be credited to this account.

C. The records covering line transformers shall be so kept that the utility can furnish the number of transformers of various capacities in service and those in reserve, and the location and the use of each transformer.

This account shall include the cost installed of overhead and underground conductors leading from a point where wires leave the last pole of the overhead system or the distribution box or manhole, or the top of the pole of the distribution line, to the point of connection with the customer's outlet or wiring. Conduit used for underground service conductors shall be included herein.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of meters or devices and appurtenances thereto, for use in measuring the electricity delivered to its users, whether actually in service or held in reserve.

B. When a meter is permanently retired from service, the installed cost included herein shall be credited to this account.

C. The records covering meters shall be so kept that the utility can furnish information as to the number of meters of various capacities in service and in reserve as well as the location of each meter owned.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment on the customer's side of a meter when the utility incurs such cost and when the utility retains title to and assumes full responsibility for maintenance and replacement of such property. This account shall not include leased equipment, for which see account 372, Leased Property on Customers' Premises.

This account shall include the cost of electric motors, transformers, and other equipment on customers' premises (including municipal corporations), leased or loaned to customers, but not including property held for sale.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used wholly for public street and highway lighting or traffic, fire alarm, police, and other signal systems.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the distribution plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with regional transmission and market operations.

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used for regional transmission and market operations.

This account shall include the cost of computer hardware and miscellaneous information technology equipment to provide scheduling, system control and dispatching, system planning, standards development, market monitoring, and market administration activities. Records shall be maintained identifying to the maximum extent practicable computer hardware owned and used for: (1) Scheduling, system control and dispatching, (2) system planning and standards development, and (3) market monitoring and market administration activities.

This account shall include the cost of off-the-shelf and in-house developed software purchased and used to provide scheduling, system control and dispatching, system planning, standards development, market monitoring, and market administration activities. Records shall be maintained identifying to the maximum extent practicable the cost of software used for:

(1) Scheduling, system control and dispatching,

(2) System planning and standards development, and

(3) Market monitoring and market administration activities.

This account shall include the cost of communication equipment owned and used to acquire or share data and information used to control and dispatch the system.

This account shall include the cost of regional transmission and market operation plant and equipment not provided for elsewhere,

This account shall include asset retirement costs on regional control and market operation plant and equipment.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used for utility purposes, the cost of which is not properly includible in other land and land rights accounts. (See electric plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used for utility purposes, the cost of which is not properly includible in other structures and improvements accounts (See electric plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of office furniture and equipment owned by the utility and devoted to utility service, and not permanently attached to buildings, except the cost of such furniture and equipment which the utility elects to assign to other plant accounts on a functional basis.

This account shall include the cost of transportation vehicles used for utility purposes.

This account shall include the cost of equipment used for the receiving, shipping, handling, and storage of materials and supplies.

This account shall include the cost of tools, implements, and equipment used in construction, repair work, general shops and garages and not specifically provided for or includible in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost installed of laboratory equipment used for general laboratory purposes and not specifically provided for or includible in other departmental or functional plant accounts.

This account shall include the cost of power operated equipment used in construction or repair work exclusive of equipment includible in other accounts. Include, also, the tools and accessories acquired for use with such equipment and the vehicle on which such equipment is mounted.

This account shall include the cost installed of telephone, telegraph, and wireless equipment for general use in connection with utility operations.

This account shall include the cost of equipment, apparatus, etc., used in the utility operations, which is not includible in any other account of this system of accounts.

This account shall include the cost of tangible utility plant not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the general plant function.

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the electric operating revenue accounts provided herein.

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the electric operation expense accounts provided herein. (See note to operating expense instruction 3.)

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the electric maintenance expense accounts provided herein.

A. This account shall include the amount of depreciation expense for all classes of depreciable electric plant in service except such depreciation expense as is chargeable to clearing accounts or to account 416, Costs and Expenses of Merchandising, Jobbing and Contract Work.

B. The utility shall keep such records of property and property retirements as will reflect the service life of property which has been retired and aid in estimating probable service life by mortality, turnover, or other appropriate methods; and also such records as will reflect the percentage of salvage and costs of removal for property retired from each account, or subdivision thereof, for depreciable electric plant.

This account shall include the depreciation expense for asset retirement costs included in electric utility plant in service.

This account shall include amortization charges applicable to amounts included in the electric plant accounts for limited-term franchises, licenses, patent rights, limited-term interests in land, and expenditures on leased property where the service life of the improvements is terminable by action of the lease. The charges to this account shall be such as to distribute the book cost of each investment as evenly as may be over the period of its benefit to the utility.

(See account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Electric Utility Plant.)

A. When authorized by the Commission, this account shall include charges for amortization of intangible or other electric utility plant which does not have a definite or terminable life and which is not subject to charges for depreciation expense.

B. This account shall be supported in such detail as to show the amortization applicable to each investment being amortized, together with the book cost of the investment and the period over which it is being written off.

This account shall be debited or credited, as the case may be, with amounts includible in operating expenses, pursuant to approval or order of the Commission, for the purpose of providing for the extinguishment of the amount in account 114, Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments.

This account shall be charged with amounts credited to account 182.1, Extraordinary Property Losses, and account 182.2, Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, when the Commission has authorized the amount in the latter account to be amortized by charges to electric operations.

This account shall be debited, when appropriate, with the amounts credited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, to record regulatory liabilities imposed on the utility by the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. This account shall also be debited, when appropriate, with the amounts credited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, concurrent with the recovery of such amounts in rates.

This account shall be credited, when appropriate, with the amounts debited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, to establish regulatory assets. This account shall also be credited, when appropriate, with the amounts debited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, concurrent with the return of such amounts to customers through rates.

This account shall include those taxes other than income taxes which relate to utility operating income. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the various classes of taxes relating to Utility Operating Income (by department), Utility Plant Leased to Others and Other Utility Operating Income.

This account shall include those taxes other than income taxes which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes which relate to utility operating income. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of tax effects (both positive and negative) relating to Utility Operating Income (by department), Utility Plant Leased to Others and Other Utility Operating Income.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes (both positive and negative), which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and Federal income taxes (both positive and negative), which relate to Extraordinary Items.

This account shall include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes which relate to Utility Operating Income (by department).

This account shall include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, which relate to Utility Operating Income (by department).

This account shall include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments related to property used in Utility Operations (by department).

This account shall include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments related to property used in Nonutility Operations.

A. This account shall include, as approved by the Commission, amounts relating to gains from the disposition of future use utility plant including amounts which were previously recorded in and transferred from account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. Income taxes relating to gains recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

B. The utility shall record in this account gains resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to utility plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instruction 25.

A. This account shall include, as approved by the Commission, amounts relating to losses from the disposition of future use utility plant including amounts which were previously recorded in and transferred from account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. Income taxes relating to losses, recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

B. The utility shall record in this account losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to utility plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instruction 25.

This account shall be credited with the gain on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of allowances in accordance with paragraph (H) of General Instruction No. 21. Income taxes relating to gains recorded in this account shall be recorded in Account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

This account shall be debited with the loss on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of allowances in accordance with paragraph (H) of General Instruction No. 21. Income taxes relating to losses recorded in this account shall be recorded in Account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

This account shall be charged for accretion expense on the liabilities associated with asset retirement obligations included in account 230, Asset retirement obligations, related to electric utility plant.

A. These accounts shall include respectively, revenues from electric property constituting a distinct operating unit or system leased by the utility to others, and which property is properly includible in account 104, Electric Plant Leased to Others, and the expenses attributable to such property.

B. The detail of expenses shall be kept or supported so as to show separately the following:

A. This account shall include the revenues received and expenses incurred in connection with the operations of utility plant, the book cost of which is included in account 118, Other Utility Plant.

B. The expenses shall include every element of cost incurred in such operations, including depreciation, rents, and insurance.

A. These accounts shall include respectively, all revenues derived from the sale of merchandise and jobbing or contract work, including any profit or commission accruing to the utility on jobbing work performed by it as agent under contracts whereby it does jobbing work for another for a stipulated profit or commission, and all expenses incurred in such activities. Interest related income from installment sales shall be recorded in Account 419, Interest and Dividend income.

B. Records in support of these accounts shall be so kept as to permit ready summarization of revenues, costs and expenses by such major items as are feasible.

A. These accounts shall include revenues and expenses applicable to operations which are nonutility in character but nevertheless constitute a distinct operating activity of the enterprise as a whole, such as the operation of an ice department where applicable statutes do not define such operation as a utility, or the operation of a servicing organization for furnishing supervision, management, engineering, and similar services to others.

B. The expenses shall include all elements of costs incurred in such operations, and the accounts shall be maintained so as to permit ready summarization as follows:

A. This account shall include all rent revenues and related expenses of land, buildings, or other property included in account 121, Nonutility Property, which is not used in operations covered by account 417 or 417.1.

B. The expenses shall include all elements of costs incurred in the ownership and rental of property and the accounts shall be maintained so as to permit ready summarization as follows:

This account shall include the utility's equity in the earnings or losses of subsidiary companies for the year.

A. This account shall include interest revenues on securities, loans, notes, advances, special deposits, tax refunds and all other interest-bearing assets, and dividends on stocks of other companies, whether the securities on which the interest and dividends are received are carried as investments or included in sinking or other special fund accounts.

B. This account may include the pro rata amount necessary to extinguish (during the interval between the date of acquisition and the date of maturity) the difference between the cost to the utility and the face value of interest-bearing securities. Amounts thus credited or charged shall be concurrently included in the accounts in which the securities are carried.

C. Where significant in amount, expenses, excluding operating taxes and income taxes, applicable to security investments and to interest and dividend revenues thereon shall be charged hereto.

This account shall include concurrent credits for allowance for other funds used during construction, not to exceed amounts computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in Electric Plant Instruction 3(17).

This account shall be credited as follows with investment tax credit amounts not passed on to customers:

A. By amounts equal to debits to accounts 411.4, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Utility Operations, and 411.5, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Nonutility Operations, for investment tax credits used in calculating income taxes for the year when the company's accounting provides for nondeferral of all or a portion of such credits; and,

B. By amounts equal to debits to account 255, Accumulated deferred investment tax credits, for proportionate amounts of tax credit deferrals allocated over the average useful life of the property to which the tax credits relate, or such lesser period of time as may be adopted and consistently used by the company.

This account shall include all revenue and expense items except taxes properly includible in the income account and not provided for elsewhere. Related taxes shall be recorded in account 408.2, Taxes Other Than Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, or account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate.

This account shall be credited with the gain on the sale, conveyance, exchange, or transfer of utility or other property to another. Amounts relating to gains on land and land rights held for future use recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use will be accounted for as prescribed in paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. (See electric plant instructions 5F, 7E, and 10E.) Income taxes on gains recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall be charged with the loss on the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer of utility or other property to another. Amounts relating to losses on land and land rights held for future use recorded in account 105, Electric Plant Held for Future Use will be accounted for as prescribed in paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. (See electric plant instructions 5F, 7E, and 10E.) The reduction in income taxes relating to losses recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include amortization charges not includible in other accounts which are properly deductible in determining the income of the utility before interest charges. Charges includible herein, if significant in amount, must be in accordance with an orderly and systematic amortization program.

This account shall include all payments or donations for charitable, social or community welfare purposes.

This account shall include all payments for life insurance of officers and employees where company is beneficiary (net premiums less increase in cash surrender value of policies).

This account shall include payments by the company for penalties or fines for violation of any regulatory statutes by the company or its officials.

This account shall include expenditures for the purpose of influencing public opinion with respect to the election or appointment of public officials, referenda, legislation, or ordinances (either with respect to the possible adoption of new referenda, legislation or ordinances or repeal or modification of existing referenda, legislation or ordinances) or approval, modification, or revocation of franchises; or for the purpose of influencing the decisions of public officials, but shall not include such expenditures which are directly related to appearances before regulatory or other governmental bodies in connection with the reporting utility's existing or proposed operations.

This account shall include other miscellaneous expenses which are nonoperating in nature, but which are properly deductible before determining total income before interest charges.

A. This account shall include the amount of interest on outstanding long-term debt issued or assumed by the utility, the liability for which is included in account 221, Bonds, or account 224, Other Long-Term Debt.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the interest accruals on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of unamortized debt discount and expense on outstanding long-term debt. Amounts charged to this account shall be credited concurrently to accounts 181, Unamortized Debt Expense, and 226, Unamortized Discount on Long-Term Debt-Debit.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the debt discount and expense on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of the losses on reacquisition of debt. Amounts charged to this account shall be credited concurrently to account 189, Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the loss amortized applicable to each class and series of long-term debt reacquired. See General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall include the amortization of unamortized net premium on outstanding long-term debt. Amounts credited to this account shall be charged concurrently to account 225, Unamortized Premium on Long-Term Debt.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the premium on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of the gains realized from reacquisition of debt. Amounts credited to this account shall be charged concurrently to account 257, Unamortized Gain on Reacquired Debt.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the gains amortized applicable to each class and series of long-term debt reacquired. See General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall include the interest accrued on amounts included in account 223, Advances from Associated Companies, and on all other obligations to associated companies.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept as to show to whom the interest is to be paid, the period covered by the accrual, the rate of interest and the principal amount of the advances or other obligations on which the interest is accrued.

This account shall include all interest charges not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include concurrent credits for allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, not to exceed amounts computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in Electric Plant Instruction 3(17).

This account shall be credited with gains of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence, which would significantly distort the current year's income computed before Extraordinary Items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.3, Income Taxes, Extraordinary Items. (See General Instruction 7.)

This account shall be debited with losses of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence, which would significantly distort the current year's income computed before Extraordinary Items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.3, Income Taxes, Extraordinary Items. (See General Instruction 7.)

This account shall include the net credit or debit transferred from income for the year.

This account shall include appropriations of retained earnings.

A. This account shall include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding preferred or prior lien capital stock issued by the utility.

B. Dividends shall be segregated for each class and series of preferred stock as to those payable in cash, stock, and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment shall be described with sufficient detail to identify it.

A. This account shall include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding common capital stock issued by the utility.

B. Dividends shall be segregated for each class of common stock as to those payable in cash, stock and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment shall be described with sufficient detail to identify it.

A. This account shall, with prior Commission approval, include significant nonrecurring transactions accounted for as prior period adjustments, as follows:

(1) Correction of an error in the financial statements of a prior year.

(2) Adjustments that result from realization of income tax benefits of pre-acquisition operating loss carryforwards of purchased subsidiaries.

All other items of profit and loss recognized during a year shall be included in the determination of net income for that year;

B. Adjustments, charges, or credits due to losses on reacquisition, resale or retirement of the company's own capital stock shall be included in this account. (See account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, for the treatment of gains.)

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied for residential or domestic purposes.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of electricity sold and the revenue received under each rate schedule shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied to customers for commercial and industrial purposes.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of electricity sold and the revenue received under each rate schedule shall be readily available. Records shall be maintained also so as to show separately the revenues from commercial and industrial customers (1) which have demands generally of 1000 kw or more, and (2) those which have demands generally less than 1000 kw. Reasonable deviations above or below the 1000 kw demand are permissible in order that transfers of customers between the two classes during the year may be minimized.

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied and services rendered for the purposes of lighting streets, highways, parks and other public places, or for traffic or other signal system service, for municipalities or other divisions or agencies of state or federal governments.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of electricity sold and the revenue received from each customer shall be readily available. In addition, the records shall be maintained so as to show the revenues from (1) contracts which include both electricity and services, and (2) contracts which include sales of electricity only.

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied to municipalities or divisions or agencies of federal or state governments, under special contracts or agreements or service classifications applicable only to public authorities, except such revenues as are includible in accounts 444 and 447.

B. Records shall be maintained so as to show the quantity of electricity sold and the revenues received from each customer.

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied to railroads and interurban and street railways, for general railroad use, including the propulsion of cars or locomotives, where such electricity is supplied under separate and distinct rate schedules.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of electricity sold and the revenue received from each customer shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the net billing for electricity supplied to other electric utilities or to public authorities for resale purposes.

B. Records shall be maintained so as to show the quantity of electricity sold and the revenue received from each customer.

A. This account shall include amounts charged by the electric department at tariff or other specified rates for electricity supplied by it to other utility departments.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of electricity supplied each other department and the charges therefor shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include revenues for electricity supplied which are not provided for elsewhere.

B. Records shall be maintained so as to show the quantity of electricity sold and the revenues received from each customer.

A. This account shall be charged with provisions for the estimated pretax effects on net income of the portions of amounts being collected subject to refund which are estimated to be required to be refunded. Such provisions shall be credited to Account 229, Accumulated Provision for Rate Refunds.

B. This account shall also be charged with amounts refunded when such amounts had not been previously accrued.

C. Income tax effects relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, as appropriate.

This account shall include the amount of discounts forfeited or additional charges imposed because of the failure of customers to pay their electric bills on or before a specified date.

This account shall include revenues for all miscellaneous services and charges billed to customers which are not specifically provided for in other accounts.

A. This account shall include revenues derived from the sale of water for irrigation, domestic, industrial or other uses, or for the development by others of water power, or for headwater benefits; also, revenues derived from furnishing water power for mechanical purposes when the investment in the property used in supplying such water or water power is carried as electric plant in service.

B. The records for this account shall be kept in such manner as to permit an analysis of the rates charged and the purposes for which the water was used.

A. This account shall include rents received for the use by others of land, buildings, and other property devoted to electric operations by the utility.

B. When property owned by the utility is operated jointly with others under a definite arrangement for apportioning the actual expenses among the parties to the arrangement, any amount received by the utility for interest or return or in reimbursement of taxes or depreciation on the property shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include rents credited to the electric department on account of rental charges made against other departments (gas, water, etc.) of the utility. In the case of property operated under a definite arrangement to allocate the costs among the departments using the property, any reimbursement to the electric department for interest or return and depreciation and taxes shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include revenues derived from electric operations not includible in any of the foregoing accounts. It shall also include in a separate subaccount revenues received from operation of fish and wildlife, and recreation facilities whether operated by the company or by contract concessionaires, such as revenues from leases, or rentals of land for cottage, homes, or campsites.

This account shall include revenues from transmission of electricity of others over transmission facilities of the utility.

This account shall include revenues derived from providing scheduling, system control and dispatching services. Include also in this account reimbursements for system planning, standards development, and market monitoring and market compliance activities. Records shall be maintained so as to show: (1) The services supplied and revenues received from each customer and (2) the amounts billed by tariff or specified rates.

This account shall include revenues and reimbursements for costs incurred by regional transmission service providers not provided for elsewhere. Records shall be maintained so as to show: (1) The services supplied and revenues received from each customer, and (2) the amounts billed by tariff or specified rates.

A. For Major Utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of steam power generating stations. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as fuel handling, boiler room operations, generator operations, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

B. For Nonmajor Utilities, this account shall include the cost of supervision and labor in the operation of steam power generating stations.

A. This account shall include the cost of fuel used in the production of steam for the generation of electricity, including expenses in unloading fuel from the shipping media and handling thereof up to the point where the fuel enters the first boiler plant bunker, hopper, bucket, tank or holder of the boiler-house structure. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity, B.t.u. content and cost of each type of fuel used.

B. The cost of fuel shall be charged initially to account 151, Fuel Stock (for Nonmajor utilities, appropriate fuel accounts carried under account 154, Plant Materials and Operating Supplies) and cleared to this account on the basis of the fuel used. Fuel handling expenses may be charged to this account as incurred or charged initially to account 152, Fuel Stock Expenses Undistributed (for Nonmajor utilities, an appropriate subaccount of account 154, Plant Materials and Operating Supplies). In the latter event, they shall be cleared to this account on the basis of the fuel used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in production of steam for electric generation. This includes all expenses of handling and preparing fuel beginning at the point where the fuel enters the first boiler plant bunker, hopper, tank or holder of the boiler-house structure.

This account shall include the cost of steam purchased, or transferred from another department of the utility or from others under a joint facility operating arrangement, for use in prime movers devoted to the production of electricity.

A. This account shall include credits for expenses of producing steam which are charged to others or to other utility departments under a joint operating arrangement. Include also credits for steam expenses chargeable to other electric accounts outside of the steam generation group. Full details of the basis of determination of the cost of steam transferred shall be maintained.

B. If the charges to others or to other departments of the utility include an amount for depreciation, taxes and return on the joint steam facilities, such portion of the charge shall be credited, in the case of others, to account 454, Rent from Electric Property, and in the case of other departments of the utility, to account 455, Interdepartmental Rents.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating prime movers, generators, and their auxiliary apparatus, switch gear and other electric equipment to the points where electricity leaves for conversion for transmission or distribution.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred which are not specifically provided for or are not readily assignable to other steam generation operation expense accounts.

This account shall include all rents of property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with steam power generation. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of steam power generating stations.

This account shall include the cost of allowances expensed concurrent with the monthly emission of sulfur dioxide. (See General Instruction No. 21.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of steam generation facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of steam structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 311, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of steam plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 312, Boiler Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

B. For the purpose of making charges hereto and to account 513, Maintenance of Electric Plant, the point at which steam plant is distinguished from electric plant is defined as follows:

1. Inlet flange of throttle valve on prime mover.

2. Flange of all steam extraction lines on prime mover.

3. Hotwell pump outlet on condensate lines.

4. Inlet flange of all turbine-room auxiliaries.

5. Connection to line side of motor starter for all boiler-plant equipment.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of electric plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 313, Engines and Engine-Driven Generators, account 314, Turbogenerator Units, and account 315, Accessory Electric Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2 and paragraph B of account 512.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of miscellaneous steam generation plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 316, Miscellaneous Power Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of steam production plant the book cost of which is includible in plant accounts 311 to 316, inclusive. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of nuclear power generating stations. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as fuel handling, reactor operations, generator operations, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

A. This account shall be debited and account 120.5, Accumulated Provision for Amortization of Nuclear Fuel Assemblies, credited for the amortization of the net cost of nuclear fuel assemblies used in the production of energy. The net cost of nuclear fuel assemblies subject to amortization shall be the cost of nuclear fuel assemblies plus or less the expected net salvage of uranium, plutonium, and other byproducts and unburned fuel. The utility shall adopt the necessary procedures to assure that charges to this account are distributed according to the thermal energy produced in such periods.

B. This account shall also include the costs involved when fuel is leased.

C. This account shall also include the cost of other fuels, used for ancillary steam facilities, including superheat.

D. This account shall be debited or credited as appropriate for significant changes in the amounts estimated as the net salvage value of uranium, plutonium, and other byproducts contained in account 157, Nuclear Materials Held for Sale and the amount realized upon the final disposition of the materials. Significant declines in the estimated realizable value of items carried in account 157 may be recognized at the time of market price declines by charging this account and crediting account 157. When the declining change occurs while the fuel is recorded in account 120.3, Nuclear Fuel Assemblies in Reactor, the effect shall be amortized over the remaining life of the fuel.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred for heat transfer materials and water used for steam and cooling purposes.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in production of steam through nuclear processes, and similar expenses for operation of any auxiliary superheat facilities.

This account shall include the cost of steam purchased or transferred from another department of the utility or from others under a joint facility operating arrangement for use in prime movers devoted to the production of electricity.

A. This account shall include credits for expenses of producing steam which are charged to others or to other utility departments under a joint operating arrangement. Include also credits for steam expenses chargeable to other electric accounts outside of the steam generation group. Full details of the basis of determination of the cost of steam transferred shall be maintained.

B. If the charges to others or to other departments of the utility include an amount for depreciation, taxes and return on the joint steam facilities, such portion of the charge shall be credited, in the case of others, to account 454, Rent from Electric Property, and in the case of other departments of the utility, to account 455, Interdepartmental Rents.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating turbogenerators, steam turbines and their auxiliary apparatus, switch gear and other electric equipment to the points where electricity leaves for conversion for transmission or distribution.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred which are not specifically provided for or are not readily assignable to other nuclear generation operation accounts.

This account shall include all rents of property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with nuclear generation. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of nuclear generation facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 321, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of reactor plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 322, Reactor Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of electric plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 323, Turbogenerator Units, and account 324, Accessory Electric Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of miscellaneous nuclear generating plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 325, Miscellaneous Power Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. For Major utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of hydraulic power generating stations. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as hydraulic operation, generator operation, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account (See operating expense instruction 1).

B. For Nonmajor utilities, this account shall include the cost of supervision and labor in the operation of hydraulic power generating stations.

This account shall include the cost of water used for hydraulic power generation.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating hydraulic works including reservoirs, dams, and waterways, and in activities directly relating to the hydroelectric development outside the generating station. It shall also include the cost of labor, materials used and other expenses incurred in connection with the operation of (a) fish and wildlife, and (b) recreation facilities. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating prime movers, generators, and their auxiliary apparatus, switchgear, and other electric equipment, to the point where electricity leaves for conversion for transmission or distribution.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred which are not specifically provided for or are not readily assignable to other hydraulic generation operation expense accounts.

This account shall include all rents of property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with hydraulic power generation, including amounts payable to the United States for the occupancy of public lands and reservations for reservoirs, dams, flumes, forebays, penstocks, power houses, etc., but not including transmission right of way. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of hydraulic power generating stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the maintenance of hydraulic power generating stations. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in maintenance of hydraulic structures, the book cost of which is includible in Account 331, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2) However, the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of fish and wildlife, and recreation facilities, the book cost of which is includible in Account 331, Structures and Improvements, shall be charged to Account 545, Maintenance of Miscellaneous Hydraulic Plant.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant includible in Account 332, Reservoirs, Dams, and Waterways. (See operating expense instruction 2) However, the cost of labor materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of fish and wildlife, and recreation facilities, the book cost of which is includible in Account 332, Reservoirs, Dams and Waterways, shall be charged to Account 545, Maintenance of Miscellaneous Hydraulic Plant.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant includible in Account 333, Water Wheels, Turbines and Generators, and account 334, Accessory Electric Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant, the book cost of which is includible in Account 335, Miscellaneous Power Plant Equipment, and Account 336, Roads, Railroads and Bridges. (See operating expense instruction 2.) It shall also include the cost of labor, materials used and other expenses incurred in the maintenance of (a) fish and wildlife, and (b) recreation facilities. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each of the above.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of hydraulic production plant the book cost of which is includible in plant accounts 331 to 336, inclusive. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. For Major utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of other power generating stations. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as fuel handling, engine and generator operation, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

B. For Nonmajor utilities, this account shall include the cost of supervision and labor in the operation of other power generating stations.

This account shall include the cost delivered at the station (see account 151, Fuel Stock, for Major utilities, and account 154, Plant Materials and Operating Supplies, for Nonmajor utilities) of all fuel, such as gas, oil, kerosene, and gasoline used in other power generation.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating prime movers, generators and electric equipment in other power generating stations, to the point where electricity leaves for conversion for transmission or distribution.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of energy storage equipment includible in Account 348, Energy Storage Equipment-Production, which are not specifically provided for or are readily assignable to other production operation expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of other power generating stations which are not specifically provided for or are not readily assignable to other generation expense accounts.

This account shall include all rents of property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with other power generation. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of other power generating stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the maintenance of other power generating stations. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of facilities used in other power generation, the book cost of which is includible in account 341, Structures and Improvements, and account 342, Fuel Holders, Producers and Accessories. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 343, Prime Movers, account 344. Generators, and account 345, Accessory Electric Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of energy storage equipment includible in Account 348, Energy Storage Equipment-Production, which are not specifically provided for or are readily assignable to other production maintenance expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of other power generation plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 346, Miscellaneous Power Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of other power generation plant, the book cost of which is includible in plant accounts 341 to 346, inclusive. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. This account shall include the cost at point of receipt by the utility of electricity purchased for resale. It shall include, also, net settlements for exchange of electricity or power, such as economy energy, off-peak energy for on-peak energy, spinning reserve capacity, etc. In addition, the account shall include the net settlements for transactions under pooling or interconnection agreements wherein there is a balancing of debits and credits for energy, capacity, etc. Distinct purchases and sales shall not be recorded as exchanges and net amounts only recorded merely because debit and credit amounts are combined in the voucher settlement.

B. The records supporting this account shall show, by months, the demands and demand charges, kilowatt-hours and prices thereof under each purchase contract and the charges and credits under each exchange or power pooling contract.

A. This account shall include the cost at point of receipt by the utility of electricity purchased for use in storage operations, including power purchased and consumed or lost in energy storage operations during the provision of services, including but not limited to energy purchased and stored for resale. It shall also include but not be limited to net settlements for exchange of electricity or power, such as economy energy, off-peak energy for on-peak energy, and spinning reserve capacity. In addition, the account shall include the net settlements for transactions under pooling or interconnection agreements wherein there is a balancing of debits and credits for energy, capacity, and possibly other factors. Distinct purchases and sales shall not be recorded as exchanges and net amounts only recorded merely because debit and credit amounts are combined in the voucher settlement.

B. The records supporting this account shall show, by months, the kilowatt hours and prices thereof under each purchase contract and the charges and credits under each exchange or power pooling contract.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in load dispatching activities for system control. Utilities having an interconnected electric system or operating under a central authority which controls the production and dispatching of electricity may apportion these costs to this account and transmission expense Accounts 561.1 through 561.4, and Account 581, Load Dispatching-Distribution.

A. This account shall be charged with any production expenses including expenses incurred directly in connection with the purchase of electricity, which are not specifically provided for in other production expense accounts. Charges to this account shall be supported so that a description of each type of charge will be readily available.

B. Recoveries from insurance companies, under use and occupancy provisions of policies, of amounts in reimbursement of excessive or added production costs for which the insurance company is liable under the terms of the policy shall be credited to this account.

A. For Major utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of the transmission system as a whole. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as station operation, line operation, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

B. For Nonmajor utilities, this account shall include the cost of supervision and labor in the operation of the transmission system.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred by a regional transmission service provider or other transmission provider to manage the reliability coordination function as specified by the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) and individual reliability organizations. These activities shall include performing current and next day reliability analysis. This account shall include the costs incurred to calculate load forecasts, and performing contingency analysis.

This account shall include the costs of labor, materials used and expenses incurred by a regional transmission service provider or other transmission provider to monitor, assess and operate the power system and individual transmission facilities in real-time to maintain safe and reliable operation of the transmission system. This account shall also include the expense incurred to manage transmission facilities to maintain system reliability and to monitor the real-time flows and direct actions according to regional plans and tariffs as necessary.

This account shall include the costs of labor, materials used and expenses incurred by a regional transmission service provider or other transmission provider to process hourly, daily, weekly and monthly transmission service requests using an automated system such as an Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS). It shall also include the expenses incurred to operate the automated transmission service request system and to monitor the status of all scheduled energy transactions.

This account shall include the costs billed to the transmission owner, load serving entity or generator for scheduling, system control and dispatching service. Include in this account service billings for system control to maintain the reliability of the transmission area in accordance with reliability standards, maintaining defined voltage profiles, and monitoring operations of the transmission facilities.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred for the system planning of the interconnected bulk electric transmission systems within a planning authority area.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to conduct transmission services studies for proposed interconnections with the transmission system. Detailed records shall be maintained for each study undertaken and all reimbursements received for conducting such a study.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to conduct generation interconnection studies for proposed interconnections with the transmission system. Detailed records shall be maintained for each study undertaken and all reimbursements received for conducting such a study.

This account shall include the costs billed to the transmission owner, load serving entity, or generator for system planning of the interconnected bulk electric transmission system. Include also the costs billed by the regional transmission service provider for system reliability and resource planning to develop long-term strategies to meet customer demand and energy requirements. This account shall also include fees and expenses for outside services incurred by the regional transmission service provider and billed to the load serving entity, transmission owner or generator.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating transmission substations and switching stations. If transmission station equipment is located in or adjacent to a generating station the expenses applicable to transmission station operations shall nevertheless be charged to this account.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of energy storage equipment includible in Account 351, Energy Storage Equipment-Transmission, which are not specifically provided for or are readily assignable to other transmission operation expense accounts.

A. These accounts shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of transmission lines.

B. If the expenses are not substantial for both overhead and underground lines, these accounts may be combined.

This account shall include amounts payable to others for the transmission of the utility's electricity over transmission facilities owned by others.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in transmission map and record work, transmission office expenses, and other transmission expenses not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include rents of property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with the transmission system, including payments to the United States and others for use of public or private lands and reservations for transmission line rights of way. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of the transmission system.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of the transmission system. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 352, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of computer hardware serving the transmission function.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred for annual computer software license renewals, annual software update services and the cost of ongoing support for software products serving the transmission function.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of communication equipment serving the transmission function.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of miscellaneous regional transmission plant serving the transmission function.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of station equipment the book cost of which is includible in account 353, Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of energy storage equipment includible in Account 351, Energy Storage Equipment-Transmission, which are not specifically provided for or are readily assignable to other transmission maintenance expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of transmission plant, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 354, Towers and Fixtures, 355, Poles and Fixtures, 356, Overhead Conductors and Devices, 359, Roads and Trails. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of transmission plant, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 357, Underground Conduit, and 358, Underground Conductors and Devices. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of owned or leased plant which is assignable to transmission operations and is not provided for elsewhere. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of transmission plant the book cost of which is includible in plant accounts 351 to 359 inclusive. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the regional energy markets.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to facilitate the Day-Ahead and Real-Time markets. This account shall also include the costs incurred to manage the real-time deployment of resources to meet generation needs and to provide capacity adequacy verification. Include in this account the costs incurred to maintain related sections of the tariff, market rules, operating procedures, and standards and coordinating with neighboring areas.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to manage the allocation and auction of transmission rights.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to manage the allocation of capacity rights.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to manage all other ancillary services market functions.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred to review market data and operational decisions for compliance with market rules. It shall also include the costs incurred to interface with external market monitors.

This account shall include the costs billed to the transmission owner, load serving entity or generator for market administration, monitoring and compliance services.

This account shall include all rents of property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with market administration and monitoring. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures used in market administration and monitoring. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

The account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of computer hardware used in market administration and monitoring.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred for annual computer software license renewals, annual software update services and the cost of ongoing support for software products used in market administration and monitoring.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of communication equipment used in market administration and monitoring.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of miscellaneous market operation plant used in market administration and monitoring.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of the distribution system. Direct supervision of specific activities, such as station operation, line operation, meter department operation, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (For Major utilities, see operating expense instruction 1.)

This account (the keeping of which is optional with the utility) shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in load dispatching operations pertaining to the distribution of electricity.

Accounts 581.1 through 584 shall include, respectively, the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of overhead and underground distribution lines and stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of energy storage equipment includible in Account 363, Energy Storage Equipment-Distribution, which are not specifically provided for or are readily assignable to other distribution operation expense accounts.

A. For Nonmajor utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of street lighting and signal system plant.

B. For Major utilities, this account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in: (a) The operation of street lighting and signal system plant which is owned or leased by the utility; and (b) the operation and maintenance of such plant owned by customers where such work is done regularly as a part of the street lighting and signal system service.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation of customer meters and associated equipment.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in work on customer installations in inspecting premises and in rendering services to customers of the nature of those indicated by the list of items hereunder.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in distribution system operation not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include rents of property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with the distribution system, including payments to the United States and others for the use and occupancy of public lands and reservations for distribution line rights of way. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of the distribution system. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 361, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 362, Station Equipment, and account 363, Storage Battery Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 361, Structures and Improvements, and account 362, Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of overhead distribution line facilities, the book cost of which is includible in account 364, Poles, Towers and Fixtures, account 365, Overhead Conductors and Devices, and account 369, Services. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of underground distribution line facilities, the book cost of which is includible in account 366, Underground Conduit, account 367, Underground Conductors and Devices, and account 369, Services. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of distribution line facilities, the book cost of which is includible in account 364, Poles, Towers and Fixtures, account 365, Overhead Conductors and Devices, account 366, Underground Conduit, account 367, Underground Conductors and Devices, and account 369, Services. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of distribution line transformers, the book cost of which is includible in account 368, Line Transformers. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant, the book cost of which is includible in account 373, Street Lighting and Signal Systems. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of meters and meter testing equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 370, Meters, and account 395, Laboratory Equipment, respectively. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of plant, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 371, Installations on Customers' Premises, and 372, Leased Property on Customers' Premises, and any other plant the maintenance of which is assignable to the distribution function and is not provided for elsewhere. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer accounting and collecting activities. Direct supervision of a specific activity shall be charged to account 902, Meter Reading Expenses, or account 903, Customer Records and Collection Expenses, as appropriate. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in reading customer meters, and determining consumption when performed by employees engaged in reading meters.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in work on customer applications, contracts, orders, credit investigations, billing and accounting, collections and complaints.

This account shall be charged with amounts sufficient to provide for losses from uncollectible utility revenues. Concurrent credits shall be made to account 144, Accumulated Provision for Uncollectible Accounts-Cr. Losses from uncollectible accounts shall be charged to account 144.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred not provided for in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost of supervision, labor, and expenses incurred in customer service and informational activities, the purpose of which is to encourage safe and efficient use of the utility's service, to encourage conservation of the utility's service, and to assist present customers in answering specific inquiries as to the proper and economic use of the utility's service and the customer's equipment utilizing the service.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer service activities, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the utility's service. Direct supervision of a specific activity within customer service and informational expense classification shall be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in providing instructions or assistance to customers, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the utility's service.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in activities which primarily convey information as to what the utility urges or suggests customers should do in utilizing electric service to protect health and safety, to encourage environmental protection, to utilize their electric equipment safely and economically, or to conserve electric energy.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with customer service and informational activities which are not includible in other customer information expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of sales activities, except merchandising. Direct supervision of a specific activity, such as demonstrating, selling, or advertising shall be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in promotional, demonstrating, and selling activities, except by merchandising, the object of which is to promote or retain the use of utility services by present and prospective customers.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in advertising designed to promote or retain the use of utility service, except advertising the sale of merchandise by the utility.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with sales activities, except merchandising, which are not includible in other sales expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred for the purpose of promoting the sale of electricity, other than merchandising, jobbing or contract work activities.

A. This account shall include the compensation (salaries, bonuses, and other consideration for services, but not including directors' fees) of officers, executives, and other employees of the utility properly chargeable to utility operations and not chargeable directly to a particular operating function.

B. This account may be subdivided in accordance with a classification appropriate to the departmental or other functional organization of the utility.

A. This account shall include office supplies and expenses incurred in connection with the general administration of the utility's operations which are assignable to specific administrative or general departments and are not specifically provided for in other accounts. This includes the expenses of the various administrative and general departments, the salaries and wages of which are includible in account 920.

B. This account may be subdivided in accordance with a classification appropriate to the departmental or other functional organization of the utility.

This account shall be credited with administrative expenses recorded in accounts 920 and 921 which are transferred to construction costs or to nonutility accounts. (See electric plant instruction 4.)

A. This account shall include the fees and expenses of professional consultants and others for general services which are not applicable to a particular operating function or to other accounts. It shall include also the pay and expenses of persons engaged for a special or temporary administrative or general purpose in circumstances where the person so engaged is not considered as an employee of the utility.

B. This account shall be so maintained as to permit ready summarization according to the nature of service and the person furnishing the same.

A. This account shall include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the utility against losses and damages to owned or leased property used in its utility operations. It shall include also the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in property insurance activities.

B. Recoveries from insurance companies or others for property damages shall be credited to the account charged with the cost of the damage. If the damaged property has been retired, the credit shall be to the appropriate account for accumulated provision for depreciation.

C. Records shall be kept so as to show the amount of coverage for each class of insurance carried, the property covered, and the applicable premiums. Any dividends distributed by mutual insurance companies shall be credited to the accounts to which the insurance premiums were charged.

A. This account shall include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the utility against injuries and damages claims of employees or others, losses of such character not covered by insurance, and expenses incurred in settlement of injuries and damages claims. For Major utilities, it shall also include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in injuries and damages activities.

B. Reimbursements from insurance companies or others for expenses charged hereto on account of injuries and damages and insurance dividends or refunds shall be credited to this account.

A. This account shall include pensions paid to or on behalf of retired employees, or accruals to provide for pensions, or payments for the purchase of annuities for this purpose, when the utility has definitely, by contract, committed itself to a pension plan under which the pension funds are irrevocably devoted to pension purposes, and payments for employee accident, sickness, hospital, and death benefits, or insurance therefor. Include, also, expenses incurred in medical, educational or recreational activities for the benefit of employees, and administrative expenses in connection with employee pensions and benefits.

B. The utility shall maintain a complete record of accruals or payments for pensions and be prepared to furnish full information to the Commission of the plan under which it has created or proposes to create a pension fund and a copy of the declaration of trust or resolution under which the pension plan is established.

C. There shall be credited to this account the portion of pensions and benefits expenses which is applicable to nonutility operations or which is charged to construction unless such amounts are distributed directly to the accounts involved and are not included herein in the first instance.

D. For Major utilities, records in support of this account shall be so kept that the total pensions expense, the total benefits expense, the administrative expenses included herein, and the amounts of pensions and benefits expenses transferred to construction or other accounts will be readily available.

A. This account shall include payments to municipal or other governmental authorities, and the cost of materials, supplies and services furnished such authorities without reimbursement in compliance with franchise, ordinance, or similar requirements; provided, however, that the utility may charge to this account at regular tariff rates, instead of cost, utility service furnished without charge under provisions of franchises.

B. When no direct outlay is involved, concurrent credit for such charges shall be made to account 929, Duplicate Charges-Credit.

C. The account shall be maintained so as to readily reflect the amounts of cash outlays, utility service supplied without charge, and other items furnished without charge.

A. This account shall include all expenses (except pay of regular employees only incidentally engaged in such work) properly includible in utility operating expenses, incurred by the utility in connection with formal cases before regulatory commissions, or other regulatory bodies, or cases in which such a body is a party, including payments made to a regulatory commission for fees assessed against the utility for pay and expenses of such commission, its officers, agents, and employees, and also including payments made to the United States for the administration of the Federal Power Act.

B. Amounts of regulatory commission expenses which by approval or direction of the Commission are to be spread over future periods shall be charged to account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, and amortized by charges to this account.

C. The utility shall be prepared to show the cost of each formal case.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which may be made to operating expenses or to other accounts for the use of utility service from its own supply. Include, also, offsetting credits for any other charges made to operating expenses for which there is no direct money outlay.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in advertising and related activities, the cost of which by their content and purpose are not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in connection with the general management of the utility not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include rents properly includible in utility operating expenses for the property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with the customer accounts, customer service and informational, sales, and general and administrative functions of the utility. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the operation and maintenance of general transportation equipment of the utility.

B. This account may be used as a clearing account in which event the charges hereto shall be cleared by apportionment to the appropriate operating expense, electric plant, or other accounts on a basis which will distribute the expenses equitably. Credits to this account shall be made in such detail as to permit ready analysis.

A. This account shall include the cost assignable to customer accounts, sales and administrative and general functions of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of property, the book cost of which is includible in account 390, Structures and Improvements, account 391, Office Furniture and Equipment, account 397, Communication Equipment, and account 398 Miscellaneous Equipment. For Nonmajor utilities, include also other general equipment accounts (not including transportation equipment). (See operating expense instruction 2.)

B. Maintenance expenses on office furniture and equipment used elsewhere than in general, commercial and sales offices shall be charged to the following accounts:
