
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3b - COLLECTION, MAINTENANCE, USE, AND DISSEMINATION OF RECORDS OF IDENTIFIABLE PERSONAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Standards for Maintenance and Collection of Records
###### ยง 3b.201 Content of records.
####### completeness

(b) All records which the Commission maintains in a system of records and which are used to make a determination about an individual will be maintained with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination. Where practicable, in questionable instances, reverification of pertinent information with the individual to whom the record pertains may be appropriate. In pursuit ofin the collection of information, the Commission will limit its records to those elements of information which clearly bear on the determination for which the records are intended to be used, assuring that all elements necessary to the determination are present before the determination is made.

(c) Prior to disseminating any records in a system of records, the Commission will make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are as accurate, relevant, timely, and complete as appropriate for the purposes for which they are collected and/or maintained, except when they are disclosed to a member of the public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, or to another agency.

(d) No records of the Commission in a system of records shall describe how any individual exercises his First Amendment rights unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity. The exercise of these rights includes, but is not limited to, religious and political beliefs, freedom of speech and of the press, and freedom of assembly and petition. In determining whether or not a particular activity constitutes the exercise of a right guaranteed by the First Amendment, the Commission will apply the broadest reasonable interpretation.
