
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Approved Forms, Federal Power Act and Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
#### PART 141 - STATEMENTS AND REPORTS (SCHEDULES)
##### ยง 141.400 FERC Form No. 3-Q, Quarterly financial report of electric utilities, licensees, and natural gas companies.
###### Exceptions.,i.e.

(ii)This report form is not prescribed for any agency, authority or instrumentality of the United States, nor is it prescribed for municipalities as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act; (a city, county, irrigation district, or other political subdivision or agency of a State competent under the laws thereof to carry on the business of developing, transmitting, utilizing, or distributing power).

(2) Each Major and Nonoperating (formerly designated as Major) (as defined in part 101 of subchapter C of this chapter) public utility and licensee must file the quarterly financial report form as follows:

(i) The quarterly financial report for the period January 1 through March 31, 2004, must be filed on or before July 9, 2004.

(ii) The quarterly financial report for the period April 1 through June 30, 2004, must be filed on or before September 8, 2004.

(iii) The quarterly financial report for the period July 1 through September 30, 2004, must be filed on or before December 9, 2004.

(iv) The quarterly financial report for the period January 1 through March 31, 2005, must be filed on or before May 31, 2005.

(v) The quarterly financial report for the period April 1 through June 30, 2005, must be filed on or before August 29, 2005.

(vi) The quarterly financial report for the period July 1 through September 30, 2005 must be filed on or before November 29, 2005.

(vii) Subsequent quarterly financial reports must be filed within 60 days from the end of the reporting quarter.

(3) Nonmajor and Nonoperating (formerly designated as Nonmajor) public utilities and licensees must file the quarterly financial report form as follows:

(i) The quarterly financial report for the period January 1 through March 31, 2004, must be filed on or before July 23, 2004.

(ii) The quarterly financial report for the period April 1 through June 30, 2004, must be filed on or before September 22, 2004.

(iii) The quarterly financial report for the period July 1 through September 30, 2004, must be filed on or before December 23, 2004.

(iv) The quarterly financial report for the period January 1 through March 31, 2005, must be filed on or before June 13, 2005.

(v) The quarterly financial report for the period April 1 through June 30, 2005, must be filed on or before September 12, 2005.

(vi) The quarterly financial report for the period July 1 through September 30, 2005 must be filed on or before December 13, 2005.

(vii) Subsequent quarterly financial reports must be filed within 70 days from the end of the reporting quarter.

(4) This report must be filed as prescribed in ยง 385.2011 of this chapter and as indicated in the General Instructions set out in the quarterly financial report form, and must be properly completed and verified. Filing on electronic media pursuant to ยง 385.2011 of this chapter will be required commencing with the quarterly financial report ending March 31, 2004, due on or before July 9, 2004 for major public utilities and licensees, and due on or before July 23, 2004 for nonmajor public utilities and licensees.
