
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3b - COLLECTION, MAINTENANCE, USE, AND DISSEMINATION OF RECORDS OF IDENTIFIABLE PERSONAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Rules for Disclosure of Records
###### § 3b.221 Access of records to individuals concerned.

(a) Upon written request, either in person or by mail, to the appropriate system manager specified for each system of records, any individual may gain access to records or information in a system of records pertaining to him and filed under his individual name, or some other identifying particular, to review and to have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him.

(b) A person of his own choosing may accompany the individual to whom the record pertains when the record is disclosed [see § 3b.222(e)].

(c) Before disclosure, the following procedure may apply:

(d) The system manager will provide a written acknowledgement of the receipt of a request for access within ten days of receipt (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). Such acknowledgement may, if necessary, request any additional information needed to locate the record which the individual may reasonably be expected to know, and may require appropriate identification pursuant to § 3b.222 of this part. No acknowledgment is required if access can be granted within the ten-day period.

(1) If access can be granted, the system manager will notify the individual, in writing, as to when, and whether access will be granted in person or by mail, so that access will be provided within twenty days of the receipt of the request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). If the system manager is unable to provide access within twenty days of receipt of the request, he will inform the individual in writing as to the reasons therefor (for good cause shown), and when it is anticipated that access will be granted. If the expected date of access indicated in the written notification to the individual cannot be met, the system manager will advise the individual in writing of the delay, the reasons therefor (for good cause shown), and of a revised date when access will be granted. Such extensions will not exceed thirty days from receipt of the request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).

(2) If access cannot be granted, the system manager will inform the individual, in writing, within twenty days of receipt of the request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of the refusal of his request; the reasons for the refusal; the right of the individual, within thirty days of receipt of the refusal, to request in writing a review of the refusal by the Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, or by an officer designated by the Chairman pursuant to § 3b.224(f); and the right of the individual to seek advice or assistance from the system manager in obtaining such a review.

(e) The Chairman, or officer designated pursuant to § 3b.224(f), not later than thirty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date of receipt of the individual's request for review will complete such review, unless, for good cause shown, the Chairman, or designated officer, extends the thirty-day period in writing to the individual with reasons for the delay and the approximate date on which the review is expected to be completed. Such an extension will not exceed thirty-five days from receipt of the request for review (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays). The Chairman, or designated officer, will make one of the following determinations:

(1) Grant the individual access to the requested record and notify the individual, in writing, as to when, and whether access will be granted in person or by mail; or

(2) Inform the individual in writing of the refusal, the reasons therefor, and the right of the individual to seek judicial review of the refusal of his request for access.

(f)(1) The Commission will deny an individual access to the following records pertaining to him:

(i) Information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding;

(ii) Records listed in theas exempt from certain provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, pursuant to subpart D of this part; and

(iii) Records which may be required to be withheld under other statutory provisions.

(2) The Commission will not deny an individual access to a record pertaining to him because that record is permitted to be withheld from members of the public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.

(g) Disclosure of an original record will take place in the presence of the Commission representative having physical custody of the record.
