
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3b - COLLECTION, MAINTENANCE, USE, AND DISSEMINATION OF RECORDS OF IDENTIFIABLE PERSONAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Rules for Disclosure of Records
###### § 3b.222 Identification requirements.

The appropriate system manager specified for each system of records will require reasonable identification from individuals to assure that records in a system of records are disclosed to the proper person. Identification requirements will be consistent with the nature of the records being disclosed.

(a) Disclosure of records to the individual to whom the record pertains, or under whose name or some other identifying particular the record is filed, in person, requires that the individual show an identification card. Employee identification, a Medicare card, or a driver's license are examples of acceptable identification. Documents incorporating a picture and signature of the individual are preferred.

(b) For records disclosed by mail, the system manager will require certain minimum identifying information: name, date of birth, or the system's personal identifier if known to the individual. A comparison of the signatures of the requester and those in the record will be used to determine identity.

(c) If the system manager determines that the data in the record is so sensitive that unauthorized access could cause harm or embarrassment to the individual involved, a signed notarized statement asserting identity or some other reasonable means to verify identity will be required.

(d) If an individual can provide no suitable information or documents for identification, the system manager will require a signed statement from the individual asserting his identity and stipulating that the individual understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about an individual under false pretenses is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.

(e) The system manager will require an individual who wishes to be accompanied by another person when reviewing his records to furnish a signed written statement authorizing discussion of his records in the presence of the accompanying person.

(f) The appropriate identification requirements of this section may be required by a system manager from an individual to whom a record does not pertain who seeks access to the record pursuant to § 3b.225 of this part.

(g) No individual will be denied notification of maintenance of a record pursuant to § 3b.220 or access to a record pursuant to §§ 3b.221 and 3b.224 for refusing to disclose a social security number.

(h) No verification of identity will be required of individuals seeking notification of or access to records which are otherwise available to a member of the public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
