
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 3b - COLLECTION, MAINTENANCE, USE, AND DISSEMINATION OF RECORDS OF IDENTIFIABLE PERSONAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Rules for Disclosure of Records
###### ยง 3b.223 Fees.

(a) Fees will be charged for the direct cost of duplication of records in a system of records when copies are requested by the individual seeking access to the records. Any person may obtain a copy of the Commission's schedule of fees by telephone, by mail or by coming in person to the office of the appropriate system manager who is responsible for the protection and accountability of the desired record. Requests for copies of requested records and payment therefor must be made to the system manager. Fees will only be charged for costs of $2 or more.

(b) Where practicable, self-service duplication of requested documents may also be made on duplicating machines by the person requesting the records, on a reimbursable basis to the system manager, in the presence of the Commission representative having physical custody of the record. Where data has been extracted from one of the Commission's systems of records on magnetic tape or disks, or computer files, copies of the records of these files may be secured on a reimbursable basis upon written request to the appropriate system manager. The fee will vary for each requirement, depending on size and complexity.

(c) No fee will be charged in the following instances:

(1) When the system manager determines that he can grant access to records only by providing a copy of the record through the mail because he cannot provide reasonable means for the individual to have access in person;

(2) For search and review of requested records to determine if they fall within the disclosure requirements of this part; and

(3) When the system manager makes a copy of the record as a necessary part of the process of making it available for review.

(d) Except for requests made by Government agencies, certification of copies of any official Commission record shall be accompanied by a fee of $2 per document.
