
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Conditions
###### ยง 154.7 General requirements for the submission of a tariff filing or executed service agreement.

The following must be included with the filing of any tariff, executed service agreement, or part thereof, or change thereto.

(a) A letter of transmittal containing:

(1) A list of the material enclosed,

(2) The name of a responsible company official to whom questions regarding the filing may be addressed, with a telephone number at which the official may be reached,

(3) The date on which such filing is proposed to become effective,

(4) Reference to the authority under which the filing is made, including the specific section of a statute, subpart of these regulations, order of the Commission, provision of the company's tariff, or any other appropriate authority. If an order is referenced, the letter must include the citation to the FERC Reports, the date of issuance, and the lead docket number of the proceeding in which the order was issued.

(5) A list of the tariff sheets or sections enclosed,

(6) A statement of the nature, the reasons, and the basis for the filing. The statement must include a summary of the changes or additions made to the tariff or executed service agreement, as appropriate. The statement must include a quantified summary comparing the cost of service, rate base and throughput underlying each change in rate made to the tariff or executed service agreement compared to the same information underlying the last rate found by the Commission to be just and reasonable. A detailed explanation of the need for each change or addition to the tariff or executed service agreement must be included. The natural gas company also must note all relevant precedents relied upon to prepare its filing.

(7) Any requests for waiver. A request for waiver must include a reference to the specific section of the statute, regulations, or the company's tariff from which waiver is sought, and a justification for the waiver.

(8) Where the natural gas company proposes a new rate, identification of the last rate, found by the Commission to be just and reasonable, that underlies the proposed rate.

(9) A motion, in case of minimal suspension, to place the proposed rates into effect at the end of the suspension period; or, a specific statement that the pipeline reserves its right to file a later motion to place the proposed rates into effect at the end of the suspension period.

(b) A certification of service to all customers and state commissions pursuant to ยง 154.2(d).
