
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Changing Tariffs
###### ยง 154.208 Service of tariff filings on customers and other parties.

(a) On or before the filing date, the company must serve, upon all customers as of the date of the filing and all affected state regulatory commissions, an abbreviated form of the filing consisting of: The Letter of Transmittal; the Statement of Nature, Reason, and Basis; the changed tariff sheets or sections; a summary of the cost-of-service and rate base; and, summary of the magnitude of the change.

(b) On or before the filing date, the company must serve a full copy of the filing upon all customers and state regulatory commissions that have made a standing request for such service.

(c) Within two business days of receiving a request for a complete copy from any customer or state commission that has not made a standing request, the company must serve a full copy of any filing.

(d) A customer or other party may designate a recipient of service. The filing company must serve the designated recipient, in accordance with this section, instead of the customer or other party. For the purposes of this section, service upon the designated recipient will be deemed service upon the customer or other party.

(e) The company may choose to effect service either electronically or by paper. Such service must be made in accordance with the requirements of Part 385 of this chapter.

(f) Unless it seeks a waiver of electronic service, each customer or party entitled to service of initial tariff filings under this section must notify the company of the e-mail address to which service should be directed. A customer or party may seek a waiver of electronic service by filing a waiver request under Part 390 of this chapter, providing good cause for its inability to accept electronic service.
