
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.304 Format of statements, schedules, workpapers and supporting data.

(a) All statements, schedules, and workpapers must be prepared in accordance with the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts.

(b) The data in support of the proposed rate change must include the required particulars of book data, adjustments, and other computations and information on which the company relies, including a detailed narrative explanation placed at the beginning of the specific statement or schedule to which they apply, explaining each proposed adjustment to base period actual volumes and costs.

(c) Book data included in statements and schedules required to be prepared or submitted as part of the filing must be reported in a separate column or columns. All adjustments to book data must also be reported in a separate column or columns so that book amounts, adjustments thereto, and adjusted amounts will be clearly disclosed. All adjustments must be supported by a narrative explanation placed at the beginning of the specific statement or schedule to which they apply.

(d) Certain of the statements and schedules of ยง 154.313 are workpapers. Any data or summaries reflecting the books of account must be supported by accounting workpapers setting forth all necessary particulars from which an auditor may readily identify the book data included in the filing and verify that such data are in agreement with the company's books of account.
