
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.312 Composition of Statements.
####### Statement F-3.

(h)Debt Capital. Show the weighted average cost of debt capital based upon the following data for each class and series of long-term debt outstanding according to the balance sheet, as of the end of the 12-month base period of actual experience and as of the end of the 9-month test period.

(1) Title.

(2) Date of issuance and date of maturity.

(3) Interest rate.

(4) Principal amount of issue: Gross proceeds; Underwriters' discount or commission: Amount; Percent gross proceeds; Issuance expense: Amount; Percent gross proceeds; Net proceeds; Net proceeds per unit.

(5) Cost of money: Yield to maturity based on the interest rate and net proceeds per unit outstanding determined by reference to any generally accepted table of bond yields. The yield to maturity is to be expressed as a nominal annual interest rate. For example, for bonds having semiannual payments, the yield to maturity is twice the semiannual rate.

(6) If the issue is owned by an affiliate, state the name and relationship of the owner.

(7) If the filing company has acquired, at a discount or premium, some part of its outstanding debt which could be used in meeting sinking fund requirements, or for other reasons, separately show: The annual amortization of the discount or premium for each series of debt from the date of reacquisition over the remaining life of the debt being retired; and, the total discount and premium, as a result of such amortization, applicable to the test period.
