
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.312 Composition of Statements.
####### Schedule G-2.

(ii)Adjustment Period Revenues.

(A) Show revenues and billing determinants by month, by customer name, by rate schedule, by receipt and delivery zone, if applicable, by major rate component (e.g., reservation charges) and totals for the base period adjusted for known and measurable changes which are expected to occur within the adjustment period computed under the rates expected to be charged. Billing determinants must not be adjusted for discounting. Provide projected throughput (i.e., usage or commodity quantities, unadjusted for discounting) and projected contract demand levels (unadjusted for discounting). Provide this information separately for firm service under contracts with a primary term of less than one year. Separate operating revenues from revenues received from surcharges or other sources (e.g., ACA, GRI, transition costs). Identify customers who are affiliates. Identify rate schedules under which costs are allocated and rate schedules under which revenues are credited for the adjustment period with cross-references to the other filed statements and schedules.

(B) Provide a reconciliation of the base period revenues and billing determinants and the revenues and billing determinants for the base period as adjusted.
