
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.312 Composition of Statements.
####### Schedule G-5.

(v)Other Revenues.

(A) Describe and quantify, by month, the types of revenue included in Account Nos. 490-495 for the base and test periods. Show revenues applicable to the sale of products. Show the principal components comprising each of the various items which are reflected as credits to cost-of-service in Statement A.

(B) To the extent the credits to the cost-of-service reflected in Statement A differ from the amounts shown on Schedule G-5, compare and reconcile the two statements. Quantify and explain each proposed adjustment to base period actuals. For Account No. 490, show the name and location of each product extraction plant processing gas for the applicant, and the inlet and outlet monthly dth of the pipeline's gas at each plant. Show the revenues received by the applicant by product by month for each extraction plant for the base period and proposed for the test period.

(C) Separately state each item and revenue received for the transportation of liquids, liquefiable hydrocarbon, or nonhydrocarbon constituents owned by shippers. For both the base and test periods, indicate by shipper contract: The quantity transported and the revenues received.

(D) Separately state the revenues received from the release by the pipeline of transportation and compression capacity it holds on other pipeline systems. The revenues must equal the revenues reflected on Schedule I-4(iv).
