
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.312 Composition of Statements.
####### Statement H-2.

(l)Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Negative Salvage Expenses. Show, separately, the gas plant depreciation, depletion, amortization, and negative salvage expenses by functional classifications. For each functional plant classification, show depreciation reserve associated with offshore and onshore plant separately. Show, in separate columns: expenses for the 12 months of actual experience; adjustments, if any, to such expense; and, the total adjusted expense claimed. Explain the bases, methods, essential computations, and derivation of unit rates for the calculation of depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense for the 12 months of actual experience and for the adjustments. The amounts of depreciable plant must be shown by the functions specified in paragraph C of Account 108, Accumulated Provisions for Depreciation of Gas Utility Plant, and Account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, of the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts for Natural Gas Companies, and, if available, for each detailed plant account (300 Series) together with the rates used in computing such expenses. Explain any deviation from the rates determined to be just and reasonable by the Commission. Show the rate or rates previously used together with supporting data for the new rate or rates used for this filing. The following schedule and additional material must be submitted as a part of Statement H-2:
