
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.312 Composition of Statements.
####### Schedule I-3.

(3)Allocation of Cost-of-service.

(i) If the company provides gas sales and transportation as a bundled service, show the allocation of costs between direct sales or distribution sales and the other services. If the company provides unbundled transportation, show the allocation of costs between services with cost-of-service rates and services with market-based rates, including products extraction, sales, and company-owned production. If the cost-of-service is allocated among rate zones, show how the classified cost-of-service is allocated among rate zones by function. If the pipeline proposes to establish rate zones for the first time, or to change existing rate zone boundaries, explain how the rate zone boundaries are established.

(ii) Show how the classified costs of service provided in Schedule I-2 or Schedule I-3 (i) are allocated among the pipeline's services and rate schedules.

(iii) Provide the formulae used in the allocation of the cost-of-service. Provide the factors underlying the allocation of the cost-of-service (e.g., contract demand, annual billing determinants, three-day peak). Provide the load factor or other basis for any imputed demand quantities.

(iv) Explain any changes in the basis for the allocation of the cost-of-service from the allocation methodologies underlying the currently effective rates.
