
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart D - Material To Be Filed With Changes
###### ยง 154.313 Schedules for minor rate changes.

(a) A change in a rate or charge that, for the test period, does not increase the company's revenues by the smaller of $1,000,000 or 5 percent is a minor rate change. A change in a rate level that does not directly or indirectly result in an increased rate or charge to any customer or class of customers is a minor rate change.

(b) In addition to the schedules in this section, filings for minor rate changes must include Statements L, M, O, P, I-1 through I-4, and J of ยง 154.312.

(c) The schedules of this section must contain the principal determinants essential to test the reasonableness of the proposed minor rate change. Any adjustments to book figures must be separately stated and the basis for the adjustment must be explained.

(d) Schedules B-1, B-2, C, D, E, H, H-2, and H-4 of ยง 154.313, must be updated with actual data by month and must be resubmitted in the same format and with consecutive 12 month running totals, for each month of the adjustment period. The updated statements or schedules must be filed 45 days after the end of the test period. The updated filing must reference the associated docket number and must be filed in the same format, form, and number as the original filing.

(e) Composition of schedules for minor rate changes.
