
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 154 - RATE SCHEDULES AND TARIFFS
##### Subpart E - Limited Rate Changes
###### ยง 154.403 Periodic rate adjustments.
####### Filing requirements.

(d)(1) Filings under this section must include:

(i) A summary statement showing the rate component added to each rate schedule with workpapers showing all mathematical calculations.

(ii) If the filing establishes a new fuel reimbursement percentage or surcharge, include computations for each fuel reimbursement or surcharge calculated, broken out by service, classification, area, zone, or other subcategory.

(iii) Workpapers showing the allocation of costs or revenue credits by rate schedule and step-by-step computations supporting the allocation, segregated into reservation and usage amounts, where appropriate.

(iv) Where the costs, revenues, rates, quantities, indices, load factors, percentages, or other numbers used in the calculations are publicly available, include references by source.

(v) Where a rate or quantity underlying the costs or revenue credits is supported by publicly available data (such as another natural gas company's tariff or EBB), the source must be referenced to allow the Commission and interested parties to review the source. If the rate or quantity does not match the rate or quantity from the source referenced, provide step-by-step instructions to tie the rate in the referenced source to the rate in the filing.

(vi) Where a number is derived from another number by applying a load factor, percentage, or other adjusting factor not referenced in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, include workpapers and a narrative to explain the calculation of the adjusting factor.

(2) If the natural gas company is adjusting its rates to reflect changes in transportation and compression costs paid to others:

(i) The changes in transportation and compression costs must be based on the rate on file with the Commission. If the rate is not on file with the Commission or a discounted rate is paid, the rate reflected in the filing must be the rate the natural gas company is contractually obligated to pay;

(ii) The filing must include appropriate credits for capacity released under ยง 284.243 of this chapter with workpapers showing the quantity released, the revenues received from the release, the time period of the release, and the natural gas pipeline on which the release took place; and,

(iii) The filing must include a statement of the refunds received from each upstream natural gas company which are included in the rate adjustment. The statement must conform to the requirements set forth in ยง 154.501.

(3) If the natural gas company is reflecting changes in its fuel reimbursement percentage, the filing must include:

(i) A summary statement of actual gas inflows and outflows for each month used to calculate the fuel reimbursement percentage or surcharge. For purposes of establishing the surcharge, the summary statement must be included for each month of the period over which the differences defined in paragraph (c) of this section accumulate.

(ii) Where the fuel reimbursement percentage is calculated based on estimated activity over a future period, the period must be defined and the estimates used in the calculation must be justified. If any of the estimates are publicly available, include a reference to the source.

(4) The natural gas company must not recover costs and is not obligated to return revenues which are applicable to the period pre-dating the effectiveness of the tariff language setting forth the periodic rate change mechanism, unless permitted or required to do so by the Commission.
