
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 156 - APPLICATIONS FOR ORDERS UNDER SECTION 7(a) OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### ยง 156.5 Exhibits.
###### Exhibit H-Total gas supply data.

(9)A statement of the total gas supply committed to, controlled by, or possessed by an applicant which is available to it for the acts and the services proposed, together with:

(i) The estimated total volume of proven reserves in place for each reservoir in each field from which applicant takes natural gas, giving names and location of fields (state, county, or parish).

(ii) The estimated total volumes of proven reserves available to applicant by fee or under lease, segregated by gas fields and reservoirs thereof, giving names and locations of fields (state, county, or parish).

(iii) The names and addresses of persons with whom applicant has gas purchase contracts, the effective dates and remaining terms in years of such contracts.

(iv) A study, showing the daily volumes of natural gas which can and are proposed to be obtained each year from each source of supply.

(v) Estimate of the Btu content of the gas available to or requested by applicant for proposed service.

(vi) A study of each proposed gas storage field showing: Location; geology; original and present reserves for each reservoir; original and present pressure of each reservoir; proposed top and base storage pressures; proposed top and base gas volumes to be stored; a deliverability study, including daily and annual injection and withdrawal rates and pressures; and maximum daily deliverability and maximum storage capacity under the proposed plan of development.
