
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 156 - APPLICATIONS FOR ORDERS UNDER SECTION 7(a) OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### ยง 156.5 Exhibits.
###### Exhibit L-Financing.

(13)Plans for financing the proposed facilities for which the application is filed, together with:

(i) A detailed description of applicant's outstanding and proposed securities and liabilities, showing amount (face value and number), interest or dividend rate, dates of issue and maturity, voting privileges, and principal terms and conditions applicable to each.

(ii) The manner in which applicant proposes to dispose of securities by private sale, competitive bidding or otherwise; the persons, if known, to whom they will be sold or issued, and evidence that such persons having agreed to purchase the securities, and if not known, the class or classes of such persons.

(iii) A statement showing for each proposed issue, by total amount and by unit, the estimated sale price and estimated net proceeds to the applicant.

(iv) A statement as to the extent to which the applicant will rely on temporary financing in connection with the proposed construction, and statements tending to substantiate the fact that such temporary loans will be made available.

(v) Statement of anticipated cash flow, including provision during the period of construction and the first 3 full years of proposed operation for interest requirements, dividends, and capital retirements.

(vi) Statement showing, over the life of each issue, the annual amount of securities which applicant expects to retire through operation of a sinking fund or other extinguishment of the obligation.

(vii) A balance sheet and income statement (12 months) of most recent date available.

(viii) Comparative pro forma balance sheets and income statements for the period of construction and each of the first 3 full years of operation, giving effect to the proposed construction and proposed financing of the project.

(ix) Any additional data and information upon which applicant proposes to rely in showing the adequacy and availability to it of resources for financing its proposed project.
