
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.8 Acceptance for filing or rejection of applications.

Applications will be docketed when received and the applicant so advised.

(a) If an application patently fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements or with applicable Commission rules, regulations, and orders for which a waiver has not been granted, the Director of the Office of Energy Projects or the Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation may reject the application within 10 business days of filing as provided by ยง 385.2001(b) of this chapter. This rejection is without prejudice to an applicant's refiling a complete application. However, an application will not be rejected solely on the basis of:

(1) Environmental reports that are incomplete because the company has not been granted access by the affected landowner(s) to perform required surveys; or,

(2) Environmental reports that are incomplete, but where the minimum checklist requirements of part 380, appendix A of this chapter have been met.

(b) An application which relates to an operation, sale, service, construction, extension, acquisition, or abandonment concerning which a prior application has been filed and rejected, shall be docketed as a new application. Such new application shall state the docket number of the prior rejected application.

(c) The Director of the Office of Energy Projects or the Director of the Office of Energy Market Regulation may also reject an application after it has been noticed, at any time, if it is determined that such application does not conform to the requirements of this part.
