
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### § 157.10 Interventions and protests.

(a) Notices of applications, as provided by § 157.9, will fix the time within which any person desiring to participate in the proceeding may file a petition to intervene, and within which any interested regulatory agency, as provided by § 385.214 of this chapter, desiring to intervene may file its notice of intervention.

(1) Any person filing a petition to intervene or notice of intervention shall state specifically whether he seeks formal hearing on the application.

(2) Any person may file to intervene on environmental grounds based on the draft environmental impact statement as stated at § 380.10(a)(1)(i) of this chapter. In accordance with that section, such intervention will be deemed timely as long as it is filed within the comment period for the draft environmental impact statement.

(3) Failure to make timely filing will constitute grounds for denial of participation in the absence of extraordinary circumstances or good cause shown.

(4) Protests may be filed in accordance with § 385.211 of this chapter within the time permitted by any person who does not seek to participate in the proceeding.

(b) A copy of each application, supplement and amendment thereto, including exhibits required by §§ 157.14, 157.16, and 157.18, shall upon request be promptly supplied by the applicant to anyone who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or given notice of intervention.

(1) An applicant is not required to serve voluminous or difficult to reproduce material, such as copies of certain environmental information, to all parties, as long as such material is publicly available in an accessible central location in each county throughout the project area.

(2) An applicant shall make a good faith effort to place the materials in a public location that provides maximum accessibility to the public.

(c) Complete copies of the application must be available in accessible central locations in each county throughout the project area, either in paper or electronic format, within three business days of the date a filing is issued a docket number. Within five business days of receiving a request for a complete copy from any party, the applicant must serve a full copy of any filing on the requesting party. Such copy may exclude voluminous or difficult to reproduce material that is publicly available. Pipelines must keep all voluminous material on file with the Commission and make such information available for inspection at buildings with public access preferably with evening and weekend business hours, such as libraries located in central locations in each county throughout the project area.
