
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.14 Exhibits.
####### Exhibit G-Flow diagrams showing daily design capacity and reflecting operation with and without proposed facilities added.

(8)A flow diagram showing daily design capacity and reflecting operating conditions with only existing facilities in operation. A second flow diagram showing daily design capacity and reflecting operating conditions with both proposed and existing facilities in operation. Both flow diagrams shall include the following for the portion of the system affected:

(i) Diameter, wall thickness, and length of pipe installed and proposed to be installed and the diameter and wall thickness of the installed pipe to which connection is proposed.

(ii) For each proposed new compressor station and existing station, the size, type and number of compressor units, horsepower required, horsepower installed and proposed to be installed, volume of gas to be used as fuel, suction and discharge pressures, and compression ratio.

(iii) Pressures and volumes of gas at the main line inlet and outlet connections at each compressor station.

(iv) Pressures and volumes of gas at each intake and take-off point and at the beginning and terminus of the existing and proposed facilities and at the intake or take-off point of the existing facilities to which the proposed facilities are to be connected.
