
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.14 Exhibits.
####### Exhibit P-Tariff.

(19)(i) A statement of the rates to be charged for the proposed sales or service, including:

(A) Identification of the applicable presently effective rate schedules, when no additional tariff filings will be required, or

(B) When changes are required in applicant's presently effective tariff, or if applicant has no tariff, pro forma copies of appropriate changes in or additions to the effective tariff or a pro forma copy of the new gas tariff proposed, or

(C) When a new rate is proposed, a statement explaining the basis used in arriving at the proposed rate. Such statement shall clearly show whether such rate results from negotiation, cost-of-service determination, competitive factors or others, and shall give the nature of any studies which have been made in connection therewith.

(ii) When new rates or changes in present rates are proposed or when the proposed facilities will result in a material change in applicant's average cost of service, such statement shall be accompanied by supporting data showing:

(A) System cost of service for the first calendar year of operation after the proposed facilities are placed in service.

(B) An allocation of such costs to each particular service classification, with the basis for each allocation clearly stated.

(C) The proposed rate base and rate of return.

(D) Gas operating expenses, segregated functionally by accounts.

(E) Depletion and depreciation.

(F) Taxes with the basis upon which computed.
