
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### § 157.16 Exhibits relating to acquisitions.

In addition to the exhibits required by § 157.14, every application involving acquisition of facilities must be accompanied by the exhibits listed below. Together with each exhibit applicant must provide a full and complete explanation of the data submitted, the manner in which it was obtained, and the reasons for the conclusions derived from the exhibits, unless the applicant includes a statement identifying the schedule and rate containing the required information and data filed as prescribed in § 385.2011 of this chapter. If the Commission determines that a formal hearing upon the application is required or that testimony and hearing exhibits should be filed, the Secretary will promptly notify the applicant that submittal of all the exhibits and testimony of all witnesses to be sponsored by the applicant in support of his case-in-chief is required. Submittal of these exhibits and testimony must be within 20 days from the date of the Secretary's notice, or any other time specified by the Secretary in the notice. Sections 157.6(a) and 385.2011 of this chapter will govern the submissions required to be furnished to the Commission. Interveners and persons becoming interveners after the date of the Secretary's notice must be advised by the applicant of the afore-specified exhibits and testimony, and must be furnished with copies upon request. If this section requires an applicant to reveal Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (CEII), as defined by § 388.113(c) of this chapter, to any person, the applicant shall follow the procedures set out in § 157.10(d).
