
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.16 Exhibits relating to acquisitions.
####### Exhibit S-Accounting.

(c)A statement showing:

(1) The amounts recorded upon the books of the vendor, as being applicable to the facilities to be acquired, and the related depreciation, depletion, and amortization reserves. Include a brief statement explaining the basis or methods used to derive the related depreciation, depletion and amortization reserves.

(2) The original cost of the facilities to be acquired, segregated by accounts prescribed in the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts for Natural Gas Companies; the method by which the original cost was determined; and whether such statement of original cost has been approved by any regulatory body.

(3) If the original cost has not been determined, an estimate thereof, based upon records or data of vendor or its predecessors, together with an explanation of the manner in which such estimate was made and the name and address of the present custodian of all existing pertinent records and data.

(4) The depreciation, depletion, and amortization reserve requirements applicable to the original cost of the facilities to be acquired, estimated service lives, the approximate average age of the facilities to which the depreciation reserve applies, the amortization period, and the depletion rates and estimated gas reserves upon which accruals to the depletion reserve are based.

(5) The amount at which applicant proposes to record the facilities upon its books; the amount of the original cost to be recorded, the depreciation, depletion, and amortization reserves; and the acquisition adjustments, if any, together with applicant's proposed disposition of all adjustments.

(6) Duplicate facilities to be acquired and retired, property which must be extensively rehabilitated, including a clear description of such property, the additional costs to be incurred, and the accounting therefor proposed.

(7) A balance sheet of the company to be acquired as of the most recent date available, if the acquisition involved is by purchase of capital stock and liquidation of the acquired company.

(8) A pro forma consolidating balance sheet, as of the date of the merger if the acquisition is by merger, showing the merging of the accounts and the adjustments relating thereto.
