
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.18 Applications to abandon facilities or service; exhibits.
####### Exhibit U-Contracts and other agreements.

(b)A conformed copy of each contract or other agreement pertaining directly or indirectly to the abandonment of facilities or service, including all agreements which influenced applicant to seek the abandonment and all agreements which are dependent upon the approval of the proposed abandonment.

(c) Exhibit V-Flow diagram showing daily design capacity and reflecting operation of applicant's system after abandonment. Receipt and delivery point information required in various exhibits must be labeled with a location point name and code in accordance with the location name and code the pipeline has adopted in conformance with ยง 284.13(f) of this chapter. A flow diagram showing daily design capacity and reflecting operating conditions of applicant's system after abandonment of facilities on that segment of the system affected by the abandonment, including the following:

(1) Diameter, wall thickness, and length of pipe remaining.

(2) For each remaining compressor station, the size, type and number of compressor units, horsepower required, horsepower installed, volume of gas to be used as fuel, suction and discharge pressures, and compression ratio.

(3) Pressures and volumes of gas at the main line inlet and outlet connections at each compressor station.

(4) Pressures and volumes of gas at each intake and takeoff point and at the beginning and terminus of all remaining facilities.
