
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart A - Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and for Orders Permitting and Approving Abandonment under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as Amended, Concerning Any Operation, Sales, Service, Construction, Extension, Acquisition or Abandonment
###### ยง 157.18 Applications to abandon facilities or service; exhibits.
####### Exhibit Y-Accounting treatment of abandonment.

(f)Concisely describe the changes of property, indicating the cost of property to be abandoned in place, the cost of property to be removed and salvaged, the proposed disposition of salvaged material, and a description of equipment to be relocated setting forth its cost, its proposed new location, and the extent of rehabilitation required. Include the information required below.

(1) State the proposed accounting treatment for property changes, showing, for example, retirements by primary plant accounts, cost of removal, salvage realized for materials and equipment sold, original cost of reusable materials and equipment recovered (see Account 154 of the Uniform System of Accounts), and maintenance costs for reconditioning of reusable materials and equipment.

(2) If the abandonment will be by sale of property, describe the property to be sold, together with the proposed accounting treatment as required by paragraph F of Gas Plant Instruction 5 of the Uniform System of Accounts. Include a brief statement explaining the basis or methods used to derive the accumulated depreciation related to the property to be disposed of. Applicant may use pro forma accounting entries based on estimated amounts, provided that upon consummation of the sale he must file proposed accounting entries in conformity with the requirements of the Uniform System of Accounts. If the proposed sale will result in a taxable gain to the applicant, indicate the amount of federal and state income taxes to be allocated to the gain. If no allocation is to be made, explain the reasons.

(3) State the amount of accumulated deferred income taxes attributable to the property to be abandoned and the tax basis of the property. Indicate the proposed accounting treatment of those accumulated deferred taxes.
