
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart B - Open Seasons for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects
###### ยง 157.34 Notice of open season.
####### Timing.

(d)(1) A prospective applicant must provide prospective shippers at least 90 days from the date on which notice of the open season is given within which to submit requests for transportation services. No bid shall be rejected because a prospective shipper has submitted another bid in another open season conducted under this subpart.

(2) A prospective applicant must consider any bids tendered after the expiration of the open season by qualifying bidders and may reject them only if they cannot be accommodated due to economic, engineering, design, capacity or operational constraints, or accommodating the request would otherwise adversely impact the timely development of the project, and a detailed explanation must accompany the rejection. Any bids tendered after the expiration of the open season must contain a good faith showing, including a statement of the circumstances which prevented the late bidder from tendering a timely bid and how those circumstances have changed. If a prospective applicant determines at any time that, based on the criteria stated in this paragraph, no further late bids for capacity can be accommodated, it may request Commission approval to summarily reject any further requests.

(3) Within 10 days after precedent agreements have been executed for capacity allocated in the open season, the prospective applicant shall make public on the Internet and through press releases the results of the open season, at least including the name of the prospective shipper, amount of capacity awarded, and term of agreement.

(4) Within 20 days after precedent agreements have been executed for capacity allocated in the open season, the prospective applicant must submit copies of all such precedent agreements to the Commission and copies of any relevant correspondence with bidders for capacity who were not allocated capacity that identifies why such bids were not accepted (all documents identified in this paragraph (d)(4) may be filed seeking privileged treatment pursuant to ยง 388.112 of this chapter.
