
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart F - Interstate Pipeline Blanket Certificates and Authorization Under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act for Certain Transactions and Abandonment
###### ยง 157.208 Construction, acquisition, operation, replacement, and miscellaneous rearrangement of facilities.
####### Special conditions.

(f)(1) For purposes of comparing the project cost of leased facilities with the per-project cost limitations in Table I of this section, the project cost of leased facilities shall be the annual lease charge multiplied by the number of years of the lease.

(2) In the interest of safety and reliability of service, facilities authorized by the certificate shall not be operated at pressures exceeding the maximum operating pressure set forth in the request. In the event that the certificate holder thereafter wishes to change the maximum operating pressure of supply or delivery lateral facilities constructed under section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act or facilities constructed under this section, it shall file an appropriate request pursuant to the procedures set forth in ยง 157.205(b). Such request shall include the reasons for the proposed change. Nothing contained herein authorizes the certificate holder to operate any facility at a pressure above the maximum prescribed by State law, if such law requires a lower pressure than authorized hereby.

(g) If the actual cost of the project exceeds the per-project cost authorized under a blanket certificate in Table I of this section, the certificate holder shall apply to the Director of the Office of Energy Projects for a waiver of those project cost limits.
