
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Regulations Under Natural Gas Act
#### PART 157 - APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY AND FOR ORDERS PERMITTING AND APPROVING ABANDONMENT UNDER SECTION 7 OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart F - Interstate Pipeline Blanket Certificates and Authorization Under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act for Certain Transactions and Abandonment
###### ยง 157.214 Increase in storage capacity.
####### Reporting requirements.

(c)For any storage facility whose capacity is increased pursuant to this section, the certificate holder shall submit, in the manner prescribed in ยง 385.2011 of this chapter, semi-annual reports (to coincide with the termination of the injection and withdrawal cycles) containing the information listed in subdivisions (1) through (8) of this paragraph. The certificate holder shall continue to file semi-annual reports until the storage inventory volume has reached, or closely approximates, the maximum specified in the request. Thereafter, the reports shall continue on a semi-annual basis for a period of one year. The filing of reports shall be discontinued thereafter unless otherwise ordered by the Commission. (Volumes shall be stated at 14.73 psia and 60 &#xB0;F, and pressures shall be stated in psia.)

(1) The daily volume of natural gas injected into and withdrawn from the storage reservoir.

(2) The volume of natural gas in the reservoir at the end of the reporting period.

(3) The maximum daily injection or withdrawal rate experienced during the reporting period and the average working pressure on such maximum days taken at a central measuring point where the total volume injected or withdrawn is measured.

(4) Results of any tracer program by which the leakage of injected gas may be determined. If the leakage of gas exists, the report should show the estimated total volume of gas leakage, the volume of recycled gas and the remaining inventory of gas in the reservoir at the end of the reporting period.

(5) Any surveys of pressures in gas wells, water levels in observation wells, pump test results for the aquifer-type reservoirs, and the results of back-pressure tests conducted during the reporting period.

(6) The latest revised structure and isopachous contour maps showing the location of the wells, the location and extent of the gas bubble in the storage reservoir for aquifer-type reservoirs and in any other reservoirs of the project in which gas bubbles are known to exist. This map need not be filed if there is no material change from the map previously filed.

(7) Discussion of current operating problems and conclusions.

(8) Such other data or reports which may aid the Commission in the evaluation of the storage project.
