
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Records.

2.A. Each utility shall keep its books of account, and all other books, records, and memoranda which support the entries in such books of account so as to be able to furnish readily full information as to any item included in any account. Each entry shall be supported by such detailed information as will permit ready identification, analysis, and verification of all facts relevant thereto.

B. The books and records referred to herein include not only accounting records in a limited technical sense, but all other records, such as minute books, stock books, reports, correspondence, memoranda, etc., which may be useful in developing the history of or facts regarding any transaction.

C. No utility shall destroy any such books or records unless the destruction thereof is permitted by rules and regulations of the Commission.

D. In addition to prescribed accounts, clearing accounts, temporary or experimental accounts, and subdivisions of any accounts, may be kept, provided the integrity of the prescribed accounts is not impaired.

E. All amounts included in the accounts prescribed herein for gas plant and operating expenses shall be just and reasonable and any payments or accruals by the utility in excess of just and reasonable charges shall be included in account 426.5, Other Deductions.

F. The arrangement or sequence of the accounts prescribed herein shall not be controlling as to the arrangement or sequence in report forms which may be prescribed by the Commission.
