
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation.

18.A. Where there are timing differences between the periods in which transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income, the income tax effects of such transactions are to be recognized in the periods in which the differences between book accounting income and taxable income arise and in the periods in which the differences reverse using the deferred tax method. In general, comprehensive interperiod tax allocation should be followed whenever transactions enter into the determination of pretax accounting income for the period even though some transactions may affect the determination of taxes payable in a different period, as further qualified below.

B. Utilities are not required to utilize comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation until the deferred income taxes are included as an expense in the rate level by the regulatory authority having rate jurisdiction over the utility. Where comprehensive interperiod tax allocation accounting is not practiced the utility shall include as a note to each financial statement, prepared for public use, a footnote explanation setting forth the utility's accounting policies with respect to interperiod tax allocation and describing the treatment for ratemaking purposes of the tax timing differences by regulatory authorities having rate jurisdiction.

C. Should the utility be subject to more than one agency having rate jurisdiction, its accounts shall appropriately reflect the ratemaking treatment (deferral or flow through) of each jurisdiction.

D. Once comprehensive interperiod tax allocation has been initiated either in whole or in part it shall be practiced on a consistent basis and shall not be changed or discontinued without prior Commission approval.

E. Tax effects deferred currently will be recorded as deferred debits or deferred credits in accounts 190, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes, 281, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Accelerated Amortization Property, 282, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other Property, and 283, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other, as appropriate. The resulting amounts recorded in these accounts shall be disposed of as prescribed in this system of accounts or as otherwise authorized by the Commission.
