
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Criteria for classifying leases.

19.A. If at its inception a lease meets one or more of the following criteria, the lease shall be classified as a capital lease. Otherwise, it shall be classified as an operating lease.

(1) The lease transfers ownership of the property to the leasee by the end of the lease term.

(2) The lease contains a bargain purchase option.

(3) The lease term is equal to 75 percent or more of the estimated economic life of the leased property. However, if the beginning of the lease term falls within the last 25 percent of the total estimated economic life of the lease property, including earlier years of use, this criterion shall not be used for purposes of classifying the lease.

(4) the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon, equals or exceeds 90 percent of the excess of the fair value of the leased property to the lessor at the inception of the lease over any related investment tax credit retained by the lessor and expected to be realized by the lessor. However, if the beginning of the lease term falls within the last 25 percent of the total estimated economic life of the lease property, including earlier years of use, this criterion shall not be used for purposes of classifying the lease. The lessee utility shall compute the present value of the minimum lease payments using his incremental borrowing rate, unless (a) it is practicable for the utility to learn the implicit rate computed by the lessor, and (b) the implicit rate computed by the lessor is less than the lessee's incremental borrowing rate. If both of those conditions are met, the lessee shall use the implicit rate.

B. If at any time the lessee and lessor agree to change the provisions of the lease, other than by renewing the lease or extending its term, in a manner that would have resulted in a different classification of the lease under the criteria in paragraph A had the changed terms been in effect at the inception of the lease, the revised agreement shall be considered as a new agreement over its term, and the criteria in paragraph A shall be applied for purposes of classifying the lease. Likewise, any action that extends the lease beyond the expiration of the existing lease term, such as the exercise of a lease renewal option other than those already included in the lease term, shall be considered as a new agreement, and shall be classified according to the above provisions, Changes in estimates (for example, changes in estimates of the economic life or of the residual value of the leased property) or changes in circumstances (for example, default by the lessee), shall not give rise to a new classification of a lease for accounting purposes.
