
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Accounting for leases.

20.A. All leases shall be classified as either capital or operating leases. The accounting for capitalized leases is effective January 1, 1984, except for the retroactive classification of certain leases which, in accordance with FASB No. 71, will not be required to be capitalized until after a three year transition period. For the purpose of reporting to the FERC, the transition period shall be deemed to end December 31, 1986.

B. The utility shall record a capital lease as an asset in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases (or account 121, Non-utility Property, if appropriate), and an obligation in account 227, Obligations under Capital Leases-Noncurrent, or account 243, Obligations under Capital Leases-Current, at an amount equal to the present value at the beginning of the lease term of minimum lease payments during the lease term, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor, together with any profit thereon. However, if the amount so determined exceeds the fair value of the leased property at the inception of the lease, the amount recorded as the asset and obligation shall be the fair value.

C. The utility, as a lessee, shall recognize an asset retirement obligation (See General Instruction 24) arising from the plant under a capital lease unless the obligation is recorded as an asset and liability under a capital lease. The utility shall record the asset retirement cost by debiting account 101.1, Property under capital leases, or account 121, Nonutility property, as appropriate, and crediting the liability for the asset retirement obligation in account 230, Asset retirement obligations. Asset retirement costs recorded in account 101.1 or account 121 shall be amortized by charging rent expense (See Operating Expense Instruction 3) or account 421, Miscellaneous nonoperating income, as appropriate, and crediting a separate subaccount of the account in which the asset retirement costs are recorded. Charges for the periodic accretion of the liability in account 230, Asset retirement obligations, shall be recorded by a charge to account 411.10, Accretion expense, for gas utility plant, and account 421, Miscellaneous nonoperating income, for nonutility plant and a credit to account 230, Asset retirement obligations.

D. Rental payments on all leases shall be charged to rent expense, fuel expense, construction work in progress, or other appropriate accounts as they become payable.

E. For a capital lease, for each period during the lease term, the amounts recorded for the asset and obligation shall be reduced by an amount equal to the portion of each lease payment which would have been allocated to the reduction of the obligation, if the payment had been treated as a payment on an installment obligation (liability) and allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the obligation so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance.
