
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Classification of gas plant at the effective date of the system of accounts.

1.

A. The gas plant accounts provided herein are generally the same as those contained in the prior system of accounts except for some changes in classification in the general equipment accounts. Except for these changes, the balances in the various plant accounts, as determined under the prior system of accounts, should be carried forward. Any remaining balance of plant which has not yet been classified pursuant to the requirements of the prior system, shall be classified in accordance with the following instructions.

B. The cost to the utility of its unclassified plant shall be ascertained by analysis of the utility's records. Adjustments shall not be made to record in utility plant accounts amounts previously charged to operating expenses or to income deductions in accordance with the uniform system of accounts in effect at the time or in accordance with the discretion of management as exercised under a uniform system of accounts, or under accounting practices previously followed.

C. The detailed gas plant accounts (301 to 399, inclusive) shall be stated on the basis of cost to the utility of plant constructed by it and the original cost, estimated if not known, of plant acquired as an operating unit or system. The difference between the original cost as above, and the cost to the utility of gas plant after giving effect to any accumulated provision for depreciation, depletion, or amortization shall be recorded in account 114, Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments. The original cost of gas plant shall be determined by analysis of the utility's records or those of the predecessor or vendor companies with respect to gas plant previously acquired as operating units or systems and the differences between the original cost so determined, less accumulated provisions for depreciation, depletion and amortization, and the cost to the utility, with necessary adjustments for retirements from the date of acquisition, shall be entered in account 114, Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments. Any difference between the cost of gas plant and its book cost, when not properly includable in other accounts, shall be recorded in account 116, Other Gas Plant Adjustments.
