
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Components of construction cost.

3.A. The cost of construction properly includable in the gas plant accounts shall include, where applicable, the direct and overhead costs as listed and defined hereunder:

(1) "Contract work" includes amounts paid for work performed under contract by other companies, firms, or individuals, costs incident to the award of such contracts, and the inspection of such work.

(2) "Labor" includes the pay and expenses of employees of the utility engaged on construction work, and related workmen's compensation insurance, payroll taxes and similar items of expense. It does not include the pay and expenses of employees which are distributed to construction through clearing accounts nor the pay and expenses included in other items hereunder.

(3) "Materials and supplies" includes the purchase price at the point of free delivery plus customs duties, excise taxes, the cost of inspection, loading and transportation, the related stores expenses, and the cost of fabricated materials from the utility's shop. In determining the cost of materials and supplies used for construction, proper allowance shall be made for unused materials and supplies, for materials recovered from temporary structures used in performing the work involved, and for discounts allowed and realized in the purchase of materials and supplies.

(4) "Transportation" includes the cost of transporting employees, materials and supplies, tools, purchased equipment, and other work equipment (when not under own power) to and from points of construction. It includes amounts paid to others as well as the cost of operating the utility's own transportation equipment. (See item 5 following.)

(5) "Special machine service" includes the cost of labor (optional), materials and supplies, depreciation, and other expenses incurred in the maintenance, operation and use of special machines, such as steam shovels, pile drivers, derricks, ditchers, scrapers, material unloaders, and other labor saving machines; also expenditures for rental maintenance and operation of machines of others. It does not include the cost of small tools and other individual items of small value or short life which are included in the cost of materials and supplies. (See item 3, above.) When a particular construction job requires the use for an extended period of time of special machines, transportation or other equipment, the net book cost thereof, less the appraised or salvage value at time of release from the job, shall be included in the cost of construction.

(6) "Shop service" includes the proportion of the expense of the utility's shop department assignable to construction work except that the cost of fabricated materials from the utility's shop shall be included in "materials and supplies."

(7) "Protection" includes the cost of protecting the utility's property from fire or other casualties and the cost of preventing damages to others, or to the property of others, including payments for discovery or extinguishment of fires, cost of apprehending and prosecuting incendiaries, witness fees in relation thereto, amounts paid to municipalities and others for fire protection, and other analogous items of expenditures in connection with construction work.

(8) "Injuries and damages" includes expenditures or losses in connection with the construction work on account of injuries to persons and damages to the property of others; also the cost of investigation of and defense against actions for such injuries and damages. Insurance recovered or recoverable on account of compensation paid for injuries to persons incident to construction shall be credited to the account or accounts to which such compensation is charged. Insurance recovered or recoverable on account of property damages incident to construction shall be credited to the account or accounts charged with the cost of the damages.

(9) "Privileges and permits" includes payments for and expenses incurred in securing temporary privileges, permits or rights in connection with construction work, such as for the use of private or public property, streets, or highways, but it does not include rents, or amounts chargeable as franchises and consents for which see account 302, Franchises and Consents.

(10) "Rents" includes amounts paid for the use of construction quarters and office space occupied by construction forces and amounts properly includible in construction costs for such facilities jointly used.

(11) "Engineering and supervision" includes the portion of the pay and expenses of engineers, surveyors, draftsmen, inspectors, superintendents and their assistants applicable to construction work.

(12) "General administration capitalized" includes the portion of the pay and expenses of the general officers and administrative and general expenses applicable to construction work.

(13) "Engineering services" includes amounts paid to other companies, firms, or individuals engaged by the utility to plan, design, prepare estimates, supervise, inspect, or give general advice and assistance in connection with construction work.

(14) "Insurance" includes premiums paid or amounts provided or reserved as self-insurance for the protection against loss and damages in connection with construction, by fire or other casualty, injury to or death of persons other than employees, damages to property of others, defalcation of employees and agents, and the nonperformance of contractual obligations of others. It does not include workmen's compensation or similar insurance on employees included as "labor" in item 2, above.

(15) "Law expenditures" includes the general law expenditures incurred in connection with construction and the court and legal costs directly related thereto, other than law expenses included in protection, item 7, and in injuries and damages, item 8.

(16) "Taxes" includes taxes on physical property (including land) during the period of construction and other taxes properly includible in construction costs before the facilities become available for service.

(17) "Allowance for funds used during construction" includes the net cost for the period of construction of borrowed funds used for construction purposes and a reasonable rate on other funds when so used, not to exceed without prior approval of the Commission allowances computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in paragraph (a) below, except when such other funds are used for exploration and development or leases acquired after October 7, 1969, no allowance on such other funds shall be included in these accounts. No allowance for funds used during construction charges shall be included in these accounts upon expenditures for construction projects which have been abandoned.

(a) The formula and elements for the computation of the allowance for funds used during construction shall be:

(b) The rates shall be determined annually. The balances for long-term debt, preferred stock and common equity shall be the actual book balances as of the end of the prior year. The cost rates for long-term debt and preferred stock shall be the weighted average cost determined in the manner indicated in subpart D of part 154 of the Commission's Regulations Under the Natural Gas Act. The cost rate for common equity shall be the rate granted common equity in the last rate proceeding before the ratemaking body having primary rate jurisdiction. If such cost rate is not available, the average rate actually earned during the preceding three years shall be used. The short-term debt balances and related cost and the average balance for construction work in progress shall be estimated for the current year with appropriate adjustments as actual data becomes available.

(18) "Earnings and expenses during construction" includes (a) all revenues derived during the construction period from property which is included in the cost of a project under construction and (b) all expenses which are attributable to the revenues received.

(19) "Training costs". When it is necessary that employees be trained to operate or maintain plant facilities that are being constructed and such facilities are not conventional in nature or are new to the company's operations, these costs may be capitalized as a component of construction cost. Once plant is placed in service, the capitalization of training costs shall cease, and subsequent training costs shall be expensed. (See Operating Expense Instruction 4.)

(20) "Line pack gas." Line pack includes the first cost of that quantity of gas introduced into the utility's system necessary to bring the system up to its designed operating capacity or increases therein and which must be maintained in the system in order to sustain such design operating capacity.

(21) LNG "heel" is the first cost of that minimum quantity of liquefied natural gas necessary to be retained in holding tanks and other facilities for purposes of temperature and/or pressure maintenance.

(22) "Studies" includes the costs of studies such as operational, safety or environmental studies relative to plant under construction. Studies mandated by regulatory bodies relative to facilities in service, shall be charged to Account 183.2, Other Preliminary Survey and Investigation Charges.

(23) "Asset retirement costs." The costs recognized as a result of asset retirement obligations incurred during the construction and testing of utility plant shall constitute a component of construction costs.
