
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Land and land rights.

7.A. The accounts for land and land rights shall include the cost of land owned in fee by the utility and rights, interests, and privileges held by the utility in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, rights-of-way, natural gas rights, and other like interests in land. Do not include in the accounts for land and land rights and rights-of-way costs incurred in connection with first clearing and grading of land and rights-of-way and the damage costs associated with the construction and installation of plant. Such costs shall be included in the appropriate plant accounts directly benefited.

B. Where special assessments for public improvements provide for deferred payments, the full amount of the assessments shall be charged to the appropriate land account and the unpaid balance shall be carried in an appropriate liability account. Interest on unpaid balances shall be charged to the appropriate interest account. If any part of the cost of public improvement is included in the general tax levy, the amount thereof shall be charged to the appropriate tax account.

C. The net profit from the sale of timber, cord wood, sand, gravel, other resources or other property acquired with the rights-of-way or other lands shall be credited to the appropriate plant account to which related. Where land is held for a considerable period of time and timber and other natural resources on the land at the time of purchase increases in value, the net profit (after giving effect to the cost of the natural resources) from the sales of timber or its products or other natural resources shall be credited to the appropriate utility operating income account when such land has been recorded in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, or classified as plant in service otherwise to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income.

D. Separate entries shall be made for the acquisition, transfer, or retirement of each parcel of land, and each land right, or gas right (except rights-of-way for distribution mains), having a life of more than one year. A record shall be maintained showing the nature of ownership, full legal description, area, map reference, purpose for which used, city, county, and tax district in which situated, from whom purchased or to whom sold, payment given or received, other costs, contract date and number, date of recording of deed, and book and page of record. Entries transferring or retiring land or land rights shall refer to the original entry recording its acquisition. A parcel of land acquired and carried on the books as a unit is not required to be subdivided with transfers to other land accounts merely because of the erection thereon of an incidental structure to be used in gas operations but for a purpose differing from that for which the land is chiefly employed; for example, a small storehouse on production plant land.

E. Any difference between the amount received from the sale of land or land rights, less agents' commissions and other costs incident to the sale, and the book cost of such land or rights shall be included in account 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant when such property has been recorded in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, otherwise to account 421.1, Gain on Disposition of Property or 421.2, Loss on Disposition of Property, as appropriate, unless a reserve therefor has been authorized and provided. Appropriate adjustments of the accounts shall be made with respect to any structures or improvements located on land sold.

F. The cost of buildings and other improvements (other than public improvements) shall not be included in the land accounts. If at the time of acquisition of an interest in land such interest extends to buildings or other improvements (other than public improvements), which are then devoted to utility operations, the land and improvements shall be separately appraised and the cost allocated to land and buildings or improvements on the basis of the appraisals. If the improvements are removed or wrecked without being used in operations, the cost of removing or wrecking shall be charged and the salvage credited to the account in which the cost of the land is recorded.

G. When the purchase of land for gas operations requires the purchase of more land than needed for such purposes, the charge to the specific land account shall be based upon the cost of the land purchased, less the fair market value of that portion of the land which is not to be used in utility operations. The portion of the cost measured by the fair market value of the land not to be used shall be included in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use or, account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate. Regarding land and land rights held for the production of natural gas, account 101, Gas Plant in Service, shall include (1) the cost of lands owned in fee upon which producing natural gas wells are located on lands owned in fee which are being drained through the operation by the utility of wells on the other land, and (2) the first cost of lands held under lease upon which the utility pays royalties for the natural gas obtained therefrom. The cost of all other land and land rights held for the production of natural gas under a plant for such use shall be included in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, or 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, as appropriate.

H. Provision shall be made for amortizing amounts carried in the accounts for limited-term interests in land, so as to apportion equitably the cost of each interest over the life thereof. For the purposes of amortization of natural gas rights, separate interests in land which comprise an interest in a production area may be grouped to form a depletion unit. (See account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, account 404.1, Amortization and Depletion of Producing Natural Gas Land and Land Rights, account 404.3, Amortization of Other Limited-Term Gas Plant, and account 797, Abandonment, leases.)

I. The items of cost to be included in the accounts for land and land rights are as follows:
