
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Training costs.

4.When it is necessary that employees be trained to specifically operate or maintain plant facilities that are being constructed, the related costs shall be accounted for as a current operating and maintenance expense. These expenses shall be charged to the appropriate functional accounts currently as they are incurred. However, when the training costs involved relate to facilities which are not conventional in nature, or are new to the company's operations, then see Gas Plant Instruction 3(19) for accounting.

A. This account shall include the original cost of gas plant, included in accounts 301 to 399 prescribed herein, owned and used by the utility in its gas operations, and having an expectation of life in service of more than one year from date of installation. Including such property owned by the utility but held by nominees. (See also account 106 for unclassified construction costs of completed plant actually in service.)

B. The cost of additions to and betterments of property leased from others, which are includible in this account, shall be recorded in subdivisions separate and distinct from those relating to owned property. (See gas plant instruction 6.)

A. This account shall include the amount recorded under capital leases for plant leased from others and used by the utility in its utility operations.

B. The gas property included in this account shall be classified separately according to the detailed accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for gas plant in service.

C. Records shall be maintained with respect to each capital lease reflecting: (1) Name of lessor, (2) basic details of lease, (3) terminal date, (4) original cost fair market value of property leased, (5) future minimum lease payments, (6) executory costs, (7) present value of minimum lease payments, (8) the amounts representing interest and the interest rate used, and (9) expenses paid. Records shall also be maintained for plant under a lease, to identify the asset retirement obligation and cost originally recognized for each lease and the periodic charges and credits made to the asset retirement obligations and asset retirement costs.

A. This account shall be charged with the cost of gas plant acquired as an operating unit or system by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation, or otherwise, and shall be credited with the selling price of like property transferred to others pending the distribution to appropriate accounts in accordance with gas plant instruction 5.

B. Within six months from the date of acquisition or sale of property recorded herein, the utility shall file with the Commission the proposed journal entries to clear from this account the amounts recorded herein.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas plant which was constructed as a research, development, and demonstration project under the provisions of paragraph C, Account 107, Construction Work in Progress-Gas, and due to the nature of the plant it is desirous to operate it for a period of time in an experimental status.

B. Amounts in this account shall be transferred to Account 101, Gas Plant in Service, or Account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate, when the project is no longer considered as experimental. Prior to transfer to account 101 the subject plant must be certified by the Commission for use as gas plant in service.

C. The depreciation on plant in this account shall be charged to account 403, Depreciation expense, and account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs, as appropriate, and credited to account 108, Accumulated provision for depreciation of gas utility plant. The amounts herein shall be depreciated over a period which corresponds to the estimated useful life of the relevant project considering the characteristics involved. However, when projects are transferred to account 101, Gas plant in service, a new depreciation rate based on the remaining service life and undepreciated amounts, will be established.

D. Records shall be maintained with respect to each unit of experiment so that full details may be obtained as to the cost, depreciation, and the experimental status.

E. Should it be determined that experimental plants recorded in this account will fail to satisfactorily perform its function, the costs thereof shall be accounted for as directed or authorized by the Commission.

A. This account shall include the original cost of gas plant owned by the utility but leased to others as operating units or systems, where the lessee has exclusive possession.

B. The property included in this account shall be classified according to the detailed accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for gas plant in service and this account shall be maintained in such detail as though the property were used by the owner in its utility operations.

A. This account shall include the original cost of gas plant (except land and land rights) owned and held for future use in gas service under a definite plan for such use, to include: (1) Property acquired (except land and land rights) but never used by the utility in gas service, but held for such service in the future under a definite plan, and (2) property (except land and land rights) previously used by the utility in gas service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future, under a definite plan, in gas service. This includes production properties relating to leases acquired on or before October 7, 1969.

B. This account shall also include the original cost of land and land rights owned and held for future use in gas service relating to leases acquired on or before October 7, 1969, under a plan for such use, to include land and land rights: (1) Acquired but never used by the utility in gas service, but held for such service in the future under a plan, and (2) previously held by the utility in gas service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future under a plan, in gas service. (See Gas Plant Instruction 7.)

C. In the event that property recorded in this account shall no longer be needed or appropriate for future utility operations, the company shall request Commission approval of journal entries to remove such property from this account when the gain realized from the sale or other disposition of the property is $100,000 or more, prior to their being recorded. Such filings shall include the description and original cost of individual properties removed from this account, the accounts charged upon removal, and any associated gains realized upon disposition of such property.

D. Gains or losses from the sale of land and land rights or other disposition of such property previously recorded in this account and not placed in utility service shall be recorded directly in accounts 411.6 or 411.7, as appropriate, except when determined to be significant by the Commission. Upon such a determination, the amounts shall be transferred to account 256, Deferred Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or account 187, Deferred Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant, and amortized to accounts 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant, or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant, as appropriate.

E. The property included in this account shall be classified according to the detail accounts (301 to 399) prescribed for gas plant in service and the account shall be maintained in such detail as though the property were in service.

A. This account shall include the cost of production properties (except land and land rights) relating to leases acquired on or after October 8, 1969, held under a definite plan for future use to insure a future supply of natural gas for use in pipeline operations, to include: (1) Production property (except land and land rights) acquired but never used by the utility in gas service, but held for such service in the future under a definite plan, and (2) production property (except land and land rights) previously used by the utility in gas service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future, under a definite plan, in gas service.

B. This account shall also include the original cost of land and land rights held under a plan for future use to insure a future supply of natural gas for use in pipeline operations, relating to leases acquired on or after October 8, 1969, to include land and land rights: (1) Acquired but never used by the utility in gas service, but held for service in the future under a plan, and (2) previously used by the utility in gas service, but retired from such service and held pending its reuse in the future under a plan, in gas service. (See Gas Plant Instruction 7.)

C. In the event that property recorded in this account shall no longer be needed or appropriate for future utility operations, the company shall request Commission approval of journal entries to remove such property from this account when the gain realized from the sale or other disposition of the property is $100,000 or more, prior to their being recorded. Such filings shall include the description and original cost of individual properties removed from this account, the accounts charged upon removal, and any associated gains realized upon disposition of such property.

D. Gains or losses from the sale of land and land rights or other disposition of such property previously recorded in this account and not placed in utility service shall be recorded directly in accounts 411.6 or 411.7, as appropriate, except when determined to be significant by the Commission. Upon such determination, the amounts shall be transferred to account 256, Deferred Gains from Sale of Utility Plant, or account 187, Deferred Losses from Sale of Utility Plant, and amortized to accounts 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant or 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant, as appropriate.

E. The property included in this account shall be classified according to the detailed accounts prescribed for natural gas production and gathering plant in service and such classification shall be maintained in the same detail as though the property were in service.

At the end of the year or such other date as a balance sheet may be required by the Commission, this account shall include the total of the balances of work orders for gas plant which have been completed and placed in service but which work orders have not been classified for transfer to the detailed gas plant accounts.

A. This account shall include the total of the balances of work orders for gas plant in process of construction.

B. Work orders shall be cleared from this account as soon as practicable after completion of the job. Further, if a project, such as a gas production plant, a compressor station, or a transmission line, is designed to consist of two or more units which may be placed in service at different dates, any expenditures which are common to and which will be used in the operation of the project as a whole shall be included in gas plant in service upon the completion and the readiness for service of the first unit. Any expenditures which are identified exclusively with units of property not yet in service shall be included in this account.

C. Expenditures on research, development, and demonstration projects for construction of utility facilities are to be included in a separate subdivision in this account. Records must be maintained to show separately each project along with complete detail of the nature and purpose of the research, development, and demonstration project together with the related costs.

A. This account shall be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 403, Depreciation Expense, or to clearing accounts for current depreciation expense for gas plant in service.

(2) Amounts charged to account 403.1, Depreciation expense for asset retirement costs, for current depreciation expense related to asset retirement costs in gas plant in service in a separate subaccount.

(3) Amounts charged to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, for depreciation expense on property included in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, or 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use. Include also, the balance of accumulated provision for depreciation on property when transferred to account 105 or 105.1, from other property accounts. Normally, account 108 will not be used for current depreciation provisions because, as provided herein, the service life during which depreciation is computed commences with the date property is includible in gas plant in service; however, if special circumstances indicate the propriety of current accruals for depreciation, such charges shall be made to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income.

(4) Amounts charged to account 413, Expenses of Gas Plant Leased to Others, for gas plant included in account 104, Gas Plant Leased to Others.

(5) Amounts charged to account 416, Costs and Expenses of Merchandising, Jobbing and Contract Work, or to clearing accounts for current depreciation expense.

(6) Amounts of depreciation applicable to gas properties acquired as operating units or systems. (See gas plant instruction 5.)

(7) Amounts charged to account 182.1, Extraordinary Property Losses, when authorized by the Commission.

(8) Amounts of depreciation applicable to gas plant donated to the utility.

B. At the time of retirement of depreciable gas utility plant, this account shall be charged with the book cost of the property retired and the cost of removal and shall be credited with the salvage value and any other amounts recovered, such as insurance. When retirements, cost of removal and salvage are entered originally in retirement work orders, the net total of such work orders may be included in a separate subaccount hereunder. Upon completion of the work order, the proper distribution to subdivision of this account shall be made as provided in the following paragraph.

C. For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account shall be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for depreciation. For purposes of analysis, however, each utility shall maintain subsidiary records in which this account is segregating according to the following functional classification for gas plant:

(1) Production-manufactured gas, (2) production and gathering-natural gas, (3) products extraction-natural gas, (4) underground gas storage, (5) other storage, (6) base load LNG terminaling and processing plant, (7) transmission, (8) distribution, and (9) general. These subsidiary records shall reflect the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show separately for each such functional classification (a) the amount of provision for depreciation, (b) the book cost of property retired, (c) cost of removal, (d) salvage, and (e) other items, including recoveries from insurance. Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for the amount of accrued cost of removal other than legal obligations for the retirement of plant recorded in account 108, Accumulated provision for depreciation of gas utility plant.

D. When transfers of plant are made from one gas plant account to another, or from or to another utility department, or from or to nonutility property accounts, the accounting for the related accumulated provision for depreciation shall be as provided in gas plant instruction 12.

E. The utility is restricted in its use of the provision for depreciation to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use thereof without authorization by the Commission.

A. This account shall be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 404.1, Amortization and Depletion of Producing Natural Gas Land and Land Rights, for current amortization and depletion of such land and land rights.

(2) Amounts charged to account 404.2, Amortization of Underground Storage Land and Land Rights, for current amortization.

(3) Amounts charged to account 404.3, Amortization of Other Limited-Term Gas Plant, for the current amortization of limited-term gas plant.

(4) Amounts charged to account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, for amortization expense on property included in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, or 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use. Include also, the balance of accumulated provision for amortization on property when transferred to account 105 or 105.1 from other property accounts.

(5) Amounts charged to account 405, Amortization of Other Gas Plant.

(6) Amounts charged to account 413, Expenses of Gas Plant Leased to Others, for current amortization thereof.

(7) Amounts charged to account 797, Abandoned Leases, to provide for the abandonment of nonproductive natural gas leases.

(8) Amounts charged to account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, for the amortization of intangible or other gas plant which does not have a definite or terminable life and is not subject to charges for depreciation expense, with Commission approval.

B. When any property to which this account applies is sold, relinquished, or otherwise retired from service, this account shall be charged with the amount previously credited in respect to such property. The book cost of the property so retired less the amount chargeable to this account and less the net proceeds realized at retirement shall be included in account 421.1, Gain on Disposition of Property, or account 421.2, Loss on Disposition of Property, as appropriate.

C. For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account shall be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for amortization.

(1) Production-manufactured gas, (2) production and gathering-natural gas, (3) products extraction-natural gas, (4) underground gas storage, (5) other storage, (6) base load LNG terminaling and processing plant, (7) transmission, (8) distribution, and (9) general. These subsidiary records shall reflect the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show separately for each such functional classification (a) the amount of provision for amortization, (b) the book cost of property retired, (c) cost of removal, (d) salvage, and (e) other items, including recoveries from insurance. Records shall be maintained so as to show separately the balance applicable to each item of land and land rights which is being amortized or depleted except that natural gas land and land rights which comprise an interest in a production area may be grouped to form a unit for amortization and depletion and the accumulated provision applicable thereto need not be segregated to show the amount related to each gas right included therein. Records shall also be maintained so as to show separately the balance applicable to each underground gas storage project.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of the accumulated provision for amortization to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use thereof without authorization by the Commission.

A. This account shall include the difference between (a) the cost to the accounting utility of gas plant acquired as an operating unit or system by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation, or otherwise, and (b) the original cost, estimated, if not known, of such property, less the amount or amounts credited by the accounting utility at the time of acquisition to accumulated provisions for depreciation, depletion, and amortization and contributions in aid of construction with respect to such property.

B. With respect to acquisitions after the effective date of this system of accounts, this account shall be subdivided so as to show the amounts included herein for each property acquisition and to gas plant in service, gas plant held for future use and gas plant leased to others. (See gas plant instruction 5.)

C. Debit amounts recorded in this account related to plant and land acquisition may be amortized to account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, over a period not longer than the estimated remaining life of the properties to which such amounts relate. Amounts related to the acquisition of land only may be amortized to account 425 over a period of not more than 15 years. Should a utility wish to account for debit amounts in this account in any other manner, it shall petition the Commission for authority to do so. Credit amounts recorded in this account shall be accounted for as directed by the Commission.

This account shall be credited or debited with amounts which are includible in account 406, Amortization of Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments or account 425, Miscellaneous Amortization, for the purpose of providing for the extinguishment of amounts in account 114, Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments, in instances where the amortization of account 114 is not being made by direct write-off of the account.

A. This account shall include the difference between the original cost, estimated if not known, and the book cost of gas plant to the extent that such difference is not properly includible in account 114 Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments. (See gas plant instruction 1C.)

B. Amounts included in this account shall be classified in such manner as to show the origin of each amount and shall be disposed of as the Commission may approve or direct.

The investment in and use of system gas included in Account 117.1, Gas Stored-Base Gas, and Account 117.2, System Balancing Gas, may be accounted for using either the "fixed asset" method or an "inventory" method as set forth below. The cost of stored gas included in Account 117.3 must be accounted for using an inventory method.
