
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Fixed Asset Method

(b)-When replacement of the gas is made, the amount carried in Account 117.4 for such volumes must be cleared with a contra entry to Account 808.2, Gas Delivered to Storage-Credit. Any difference between the utility's cost of replacement gas volumes and the amount cleared from Account 117.4 must be recognized as a gain in Account 495, Other gas revenues, or as a loss in Account 813, Other gas supply expenses, with contra entries to Account 808.2.

Adjustments for inventory losses related to gas held in underground reservoirs due to cumulative inaccuracies of gas measurements, or from other causes, must be charged to Account 823, Gas Losses. Losses of system gas not associated with underground reservoirs must be charged to Account 813, Other Gas Supply Expenses. Gas losses must be priced at the market price of gas available to the utility in the month the loss is recognized.

Gas owned by the utility and injected into its system will be deemed to satisfy any encroachment on system gas first before any other use.

This account is to include the cost of recoverable gas volumes that are necessary, in addition to those volumes for which cost are properly includable in Account 101, Gas plant in service, to maintain pressure and deliverability requirements for each storage facility. Nonrecoverable gas volumes used for this purpose are to be recorded in Account 352.3, Nonrecoverable natural gas. For utilities using the fixed asset method of accounting, the cost of base gas applicable to each gas storage facility shall not be changed from the amount initially recorded except to reflect changes in volumes designated as base gas. If an inventory method is used to account for gas included herein, the utility may, at its election, price withdrawals in accordance with the instructions to Account 117.4.

This account is to be used to record the cost of system gas designated as available for transmission load balancing (including no-notice transportation) and other uses associated with maintaining efficient transmission operations other than gas properly recordable in Account 117.1 or the plant accounts. Detailed records must be kept separately identifying volumes and unit prices of system gas held in underground storage facilities and held in pipelines.

For utilities using fixed asset accounting, the cost initially recorded herein cannot be changed except for adjustments to volumes designated as system gas. Encroachments upon system gas must be accounted for in accordance with the instructions to Account 117.4, Gas owed to system gas.

This account is to include the cost of stored gas owned by the utility and available for sale or other purposes. Gas included in this account must be accounted for using an inventory method in accordance with the Special Instructions to Accounts 117.1, 117.2, and 117.3 above.

This account is to be used to record encroachments of system gas under the fixed asset method. This account may also be used to record encroachments of base gas for utilities electing to use an inventory method of accounting for system gas. Utilities may revalve cumulative net imbalances, net all transactions, and record one monthly entry with one month-end price for valuation purposes.

This account shall include the balance in accounts for utility plant, other than gas plant, such as electric, railway, etc.

This account shall include the accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization applicable to utility property other than gas plant.

A. This account shall include the book cost of land, structures, equipment or other tangible or intangible property owned by the utility, but not used in utility service and not properly includible in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use. This account shall also include, where applicable, amounts recorded for asset retirement costs associated with nonutility plant.

B. This account shall also include the amount recorded under capital leases for property leased from others and used by the utility in its nonutility operations. Records shall be maintained with respect to each lease reflecting: (1) name of lessor, (2) basic details of lease, (3) terminal date, (4) original cost or fair market value of property leased, (5) future minimum lease payments, (6) executory costs, (7) present value of minimum lease payments, (8) the amount representing interest and the interest rate used, and (9) expenses paid.

C. This account shall be subdivided so as to show the amount of property used in operations which are nonutility in character but nevertheless constitute a distinct operating activity of the company (such as operation of an ice department where such activity is not classed as a utility) and the amount of miscellaneous property not used in operations. The records in support of each subaccount shall be maintained so as to show an appropriate classification of the property.

This account shall include the accumulated provision for depreciation and amortization applicable to nonutility property.

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by associated companies and investment advances to such companies, including interest accrued thereon when such interest is not subject to current settlement, provided that the investment does not relate to a subsidiary company. (If the investment relates to a subsidiary company it shall be included in account entry to the recording of amortization of discount or premium on interest bearing investments. Include herein the offsetting 123.1, Investment in Subsidiary Companies.) (See account 419, Interest and Dividend Income.)

B. This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show the investment in securities of, and advances to, each associated company together with full particulars regarding any of such investments that are pledged.

A. This account shall include the cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by subsidiary companies and investment advances to such companies, including interest accrued thereon when such interest is not subject to current settlement plus the equity in undistributed earnings or losses of such subsidiary companies since acquisition. This account shall be credited with any dividends declared by such subsidiaries.

B. This account shall be maintained in such a manner as to show separately for each subsidiary: The cost of such investments in the securities of the subsidiary at the time of acquisition; the amount of equity in the subsidiary's undistributed net earnings or net losses since acquisition; advances or loans to such subsidiary; and full particulars regarding any such investments that are pledged.
