
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments in securities issued or assumed by nonassociated companies, investment advances to such companies, and any investments not accounted for elsewhere. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. Include also the offsetting entry to the recording of amortization of discount or premium on interest bearing investments. (account 419, interest and dividend income.)

B. The cost of capital stock of the utility reacquired by it under a definite plan for resale pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors may, if permitted by statutes, be included in a separate subdivision of this account. (See also account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, and account 217, Reacquired Capital Stock.)

C. The records shall be maintained in such manner as to show the amount of each investment and the investment advances to each person.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments held in sinking funds. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. A separate account, with appropriate title, shall be kept for each sinking fund. Transfers from this account to special deposit accounts may be made as necessary for the purpose of paying matured sinking-fund obligations, or obligations called for redemption but not presented, or the interest thereon.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments which have been segregated in a special fund for the purpose of identifying such assets with the accumulated provisions for depreciation. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.

This account shall include the amount of cash and book cost of investments which have been segregated in special funds for insurance, employee pensions, savings, relief, hospital, and other purposes not provided for elsewhere. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. A separate account with appropriate title, shall be kept for each fund.

This account shall include the amount of current cash funds except working funds.

This account shall include special deposits with fiscal agents or others for the payment of interest.

This account shall include special deposits with fiscal agents or others for the payment of dividends.

This account shall include deposits with fiscal agents or others for special purposes other than the payment of interest and dividends. Such special deposits may include cash deposited with federal, state, or municipal authorities as a guaranty for the fulfillment of obligations; cash deposited with trustees to be held until mortgaged property sold, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of is replaced; cash realized from the sale of the accounting utility's securities and deposited with trustees to be held until invested in property of the utility, etc. Entries to this account shall specify the purpose for which the deposit is made.

This account shall include cash advanced to officers, agents, employees, and others as petty cash or working funds.

A. This account shall include the book cost of investments, such as demand and time loans, bankers' acceptances, United States Treasury certificates, marketable securities, and other similar investments, acquired for the purpose of temporarily investing cash.

B. This account shall be so maintained as to show separately temporary cash investments in securities of associated companies and of others. Records shall be kept of any pledged investments.

This account shall include the book cost, not includible elsewhere, of all collectible obligations in the form of notes receivable and similar evidences (except interest coupons) of money due on demand or within one year from the date of issue, except, however, notes receivable from associated companies. (See account 136, Temporary Cash Investments, and account 145, Notes Receivable from Associated Companies.)

A. This account shall include amounts due from customers for utility service, and for merchandising, jobbing, and contract work. This account shall not include amounts due from associated companies.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to permit ready segregation of the amounts due for merchandising, jobbing, and contract work.

A. This account shall include amounts due the utility upon open accounts, other than amounts due from associated companies and from customers for utility services and merchandising, jobbing, and contract work.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to show separately amounts due on subscriptions to capital stock and from officers and employees, but the account shall not include amounts advanced to officers or others as working funds. (See account 135, Working Funds.)

A. This account shall be credited with amounts provided for losses on accounts receivable which may become uncollectible, and also with collections on accounts previously charged hereto. Concurrent charges shall be made to account 904, Uncollectible Accounts, for amounts applicable to utility operations, and to corresponding accounts for other operations. Records shall be maintained so as to show the write-offs of accounts receivable for each utility department.

B. This account shall be subdivided to show the provision applicable to the following classes of accounts receivable:

A. These accounts shall include notes and drafts upon which associated companies are liable, and which mature and are expected to be paid in full not later than one year from date of issue, together with any interest thereon, and debit balances subject to current settlement in open accounts with associated companies. Items which do not bear a specified due date but which have been carried for more than twelve months and items which are not paid within twelve months from due date shall be transferred to account 123, Investment in Associated Companies.

B. A natural gas company participating in a cash management program must maintain supporting documentation for all deposits into, borrowings from, interest income from, and interest expense to such program. Cash management programs include all agreements in which funds in excess of the daily needs of the natural gas company along with the excess funds of the natural gas company's parent, affiliated and subsidiary companies are concentrated, consolidated, or otherwise made available for use by other entities within the corporate group. The written documentation must include the following information:

(1) For deposits with and withdrawals from the cash management program: the date of the deposit or withdrawal, the amount of the deposit or withdrawal, and the maturity date, if any, of the deposit;

(2) For borrowings from a cash management program: the date of the borrowing, the amount of the borrowing, and the maturity date, if any, of the borrowing;

(3) The security, if any, provided by the cash management program for repayment of deposits into the cash management program and the security required, if any, by the cash management program in support of borrowings from the program; and

(4) The monthly balance of the cash management program.

C. The natural gas company must maintain current and up-to-date copies of the documents authorizing the establishment of the cash management program including the following:

(1) The duties and responsibilities of the administrator and the natural gas companies in the cash management program;

(2) The restrictions on deposits or borrowings by natural gas companies in the cash management program;

(3) The interest rate, including the method used to determine the interest earning rates and interest borrowing rates for deposits into and borrowings from the program; and

(4) The method used to allocate interest income and expenses among natural gas companies in the program.

This account shall include the book cost of fuel on hand.

A. This account may include the cost of labor and of supplies used and expenses incurred in unloading fuel from the shipping medium and in the handling thereof prior to its use, if such expenses are sufficiently significant in amount to warrant being treated as a part of the cost of fuel inventory rather than being charged direct to expense as incurred.

B. Amounts included herein shall be charged to expense as the fuel is used to the end that the balance herein, shall not exceed the expenses attributable to the inventory of fuel on hand.

This account shall include the book cost of residuals or extracted products produced in the manufacture of gas or in natural gas products extraction operations including like products purchased for resale.

A. This account shall include the cost of materials purchased primarily for use in the utility business for construction, operation and maintenance purposes. This account shall include also the book cost of materials recovered in connection with construction, maintenance or the retirement of property, such materials being credited to construction, maintenance or accumulated depreciation provision, respectively, and included herein as follows:

(1) Reusable materials consisting of large individual items shall be included in this account at original cost, estimated if not known. The cost of repairing such items shall be charged to the maintenance account appropriate for the previous use.

(2) Reusable materials consisting of relatively small items, the identity of which (from the date of original installation to the final abandonment or sale thereof) cannot be ascertained without undue refinement in accounting, shall be included in this account at current prices new for such items. The cost of repairing such items shall be charged to the appropriate expense account as indicated by previous use.

(3) Scrap and nonusable materials included in this account shall be carried at the estimated net amount realizable therefrom. The difference between the amounts realized for scrap and nonusable materials sold and the net amount at which the materials were carried in this account, as far as practicable, shall be adjusted to the accounts credited when the materials were charged to this account.

B. Materials and supplies issued shall be credited hereto and charged to the appropriate construction, operating expense, or other account on the basis of a unit price determined by the use of cumulative average, first-in-first out, or such other method of inventory accounting as conforms with accepted accounting standards consistently applied.

This account shall include the book cost of materials and supplies, and appliances and equipment held primarily for merchandising, jobbing, and contract work. The principles prescribed in accounting for utility materials and supplies shall be observed in respect to items carried in this account.

This account shall include the book cost of materials and supplies held primarily for nonutility purposes. The principles prescribed in accounting for utility materials and supplies shall be observed in respect to items carried in this account.

A. This account shall include the cost of supervision, labor and expenses incurred in the operation of general storerooms, including purchasing, storage, handling and distribution of materials and supplies.

B. This account shall be cleared by adding to the cost of materials and supplies issued a suitable loading charge which will distribute the expense equitably over stores issues. The balance in the account at the close of the year shall not exceed the amount of stores expenses reasonably attributable to the inventory of materials and supplies exclusive of fuel, as any amount applicable to fuel cost should be included in account 152, Fuel Stock Expenses Undistributed.

This account shall be debited with such amounts as are credited to Account 117.2, System balancing gas, (for utilities using an inventory method of accounting for system gas) and Account 117.3, Gas Stored in Reservoirs and Pipelines-Noncurrent, to reflect classification for balance sheet purposes of such portion of the inventory of gas stored as represents a current asset according to conventional rules for classification of current assets.

A. This account shall include the cost of liquefied natural gas stored in above or below ground facilities.

B. Natural gas purchased in a liquefied form shall be priced at the cost of such gas to the utility. Natural gas liquefied by the utility shall be priced according to generally accepted methods of cost determination consistently applied from year to year. Transmission expenses for facilities to the utility used in moving the gas to the storage facilities shall not be included in the inventory of gas except as may be authorized by the Commission.

C. Amounts debited to this account for natural gas placed in stored shall be credited to account 808.2, Gas Delivered to Storage-Credit. Amounts credited to this account for gas withdrawn from storage shall be debited to account 808.1, Gas Withdrawn from Storage-Debit.

D. Withdrawals of gas may be priced according to the first-in-first-out, last-in-first-out, or weighted average cost method provided the method adopted by the utility is used consistently from year to year and inventory records are maintained in accordance therewith. Commission approval must be obtained for any other pricing method or for any change in the pricing method adopted by the utility. Separate records shall be maintained for each storage project of the Dth of gas delivered to storage and remaining in storage.

E. Adjustments for inventory losses shall be charged to account 842.3, Gas Losses.

A. This account shall include the cost of base load liquefied natural gas available for vaporization and injection into the utility's natural gas system.

B. Natural gas purchased in a liquefied form shall be priced at the cost of such gas to the utility.

C. Amounts debited to this account for liquefied natural gas purchased for processing shall be credited to account 809.2, Deliveries of Natural Gas for Processing-Credit. Amounts credited for liquefied natural gas processed shall be debited to account 809.1, Withdrawals of Liquefied Natural Gas Held for Processing-Debit.

D. Withdrawals of gas held for vaporization may be priced according to the first-in-first-out, last-in-first-out or weighted average cost method provided the method adopted by the utility is used consistently from year to year and inventory records are maintained in accordance therewith. Commission approval must be obtained for any other pricing method or for any change from the pricing method adopted by the utility. Separate records shall be maintained for Dth of gas purchased for processing, processed, and remaining for processing.

E. Adjustments for inventory losses shall be charged to account 846.1, Gas Losses.

A. This account shall include payments for undelivered gas and other prepayments of rents, taxes, insurance, interest, and like disbursements made prior to the period to which they apply. Prepayments for gas are those amounts paid to a seller of gas under "take or pay" provisions of a gas purchase contract for a sale certificated by the Commission where future makeup of the gas not taken in the current period is provided for by the contract.

B. As the periods covered by such prepayments expire, credit this account and charge the proper operating expense or other appropriate account with the amount applicable to the period.

C. This account shall be kept or supported in such a manner as to disclose the amount of each class of prepayments.

A. This account shall include all advances made for gas (whether called "advances," "contributions" or otherwise) to independent producers, affiliated or associated companies, or others operating within the lower 48 states and Alaska; for exploration, development or production (but not to include lease acquisition) of natural gas. Under each agreement with payee, such payments must be made prior to initial gas deliveries, or if the agreement provides for advances on a well by well basis, each incremental payment must be made prior to deliveries from an incremental well, or prior to Federal and/or State authorization, as appropriate. All agreements executed after June 17, 1975, (issuance date of Order No. 529) shall specify that (1) the pipeline shall have first call on any gas produced, attributable to the advance payment, under a long-term contract which is for a minimum initial term computed as the lesser of fifteen years or the life of the reserve in the field, and (2) the selling price of the gas committed by producers whose sales are subject to price regulation shall be governed by and limited to the area rate or national rate or, under appropriate showing of special circumstance, such other rate as may be authorized by the Commission under the provisions of optional pricing and special relief. As a determination of the initial rate, the time of first delivery in interstate commerce to the purchaser shall govern. Non-current advances not to be repaid within a two-year period shall be reclassified and transferred to account 124, Other Investments, for balance sheet purposes. This transfer is for reporting purposes only and has no effect on accounting and ratemaking.

B. When a pipeline obtains a working interest as a result of funds advanced to producers, such amounts shall be included in appropriate production accounts for formal contractual agreements executed prior to the date of issuance of Order No. 499. When an associated company obtains a working interest as a result of funds advanced from a pipeline company, the pipeline shall include such amounts in Account 123, Investment in Associated Companies, or Account 146, Accounts receivable from Associated Companies, as appropriate, for formal contractual commitments made during the period on or after November 10, 1971 (effective date of Order 441) but prior to December 29, 1972, the date of issuance of Order No. 465.

C. Outstanding advances shall be fully reduced within 5 years, or as otherwise authorized by the Commission, from the date gas deliveries commence or the date it is determined that recovery will be in other than gas. This account shall be credited with advances not fully recovered within the five-year period, and the unrecovered portion charged directly to Account 426.5, Other Deductions. A sufficient portion of all gas taken should be credited to the related outstanding advance so as to eliminate the advance within the 5-year period or as otherwise authorized by the Commission upon request by the pipeline company. The reduction of the outstanding advance should not be dependent on a buyer purchasing more than 100 percent of the minimum take or pay quantity provided in the contract. In those instances where the five-year recovery period has lapsed, but recovery of the advance continues beyond the five-year period, the unrecovered advances shall be removed from this account and transferred to Account 167, Other Advances for Gas.

D. Where recovery is by gas, the recovered advance shall be credited to this account and charged to the appropriate gas purchase account.

E. When an advance which is or has been included in this account and in rate base results in a source of proven reserves of natural gas, gas deliveries commence but no gas flows to the pipeline company making such advance, the amount of the advance shall be removed from this account (and from rate base) and recorded in account 167, Other Advances for Gas. Any revenues collected as a result of the advance being included in rate base shall be refunded by the pipeline company to its customers, together with interest, per annum, at the rate established by Order No. 513, issued October 10, 1974, or as subsequently revised by Commission Order, from the date of payment until refunded, within 12 months after the removal of the advance from this account, unless otherwise directed by the Commission. Where there is partial recovery of the advance by gas, in this situation, the amount of the advance transferred from this account to account 167 and the amount of revenues refunded, with interest, shall be appropriately apportioned.

F. However, if 5 years elapses from the time the advance has been included in this account and during such time no gas deliveries have commenced or no determination has been made that the recovery will be in economic consideration other than gas, the pipeline shall at the end of the 5-year period, transfer the advance from this account to Account 167, and cease rate base treatment thereof, unless otherwise directed by the Commission.

G. Whenever as a result of an advance included in this account, a pipeline receives any amount in excess of a full recovery of the advance, e.g. interest income, such amount must be credited to Account 813, Other Gas Supply Expenses, or as otherwise directed by the Commission. If the income or return is received in other than money, it shall be included at the market value of the assets received.

H. If the recipient of an advance is unable to repay it in full, through no fault of the pipeline or contractual provisions, in gas or other assets, the unpaid or nonrecoverable portion must be credited to this account at the time such amount is recognized as nonrecoverable. Nonrecoverable advances significant in amount must be eliminated within 5 years from the date of determination as nonrecoverable by either a charge to account 435, Extraordinary Deductions, or when authorized by the Commission, by a transfer to account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, and amortization to account 813, Other Gas Supply Expenses. Nonrecoverable advances insignificant in amount should be charged directly to account 813 in the year recognized as nonrecoverable, when authorized by the Commission.

I. No transfers shall be made to or from this account to any other accounts, unless otherwise provided herein, except as specifically authorized by the Commission upon request by the pipeline company.

J. Three copies of any agreement concerning advances will be filed with the Secretary within 30 days of the initial related entry in account 166.

This account shall include all advances not properly includible in Account 166, exclusive of amounts advanced where a working interest is obtained.

This account shall include the amount of interest on bonds, mortgages, notes, commercial paper, loans, open accounts, deposits, etc., the payment of which is reasonably assured, and the amount of dividends declared or guaranteed on stocks owned.

This account shall include rents receivable or accrued on property rented or leased by the utility to others.

At the option of the utility, the estimated amount accrued for service rendered, but not billed at the end of any accounting period, may be included herein. In case accruals are made for unbilled revenues, they shall be made likewise for unbilled expenses, such as for the purchase of gas.

A. This account shall include the book cost of all other current and accrued assets, appropriately designated and supported so as to show the nature of each asset included herein.

B. The utility is to include in a separate subaccount amounts receivable for gas in unbalanced transactions where gas is delivered to another party in exchange, load balancing, or no-notice transportation transactions. (See Account 806.) If the amount receivable is settled by other than gas, Account 495, Other Gas Revenues must be credited or Account 813, Other Gas Supply Expenses, charged for the difference between the amount of the consideration received and the recorded amount of the receivable settled. Records are to be maintained so that there is readily available for each party entering gas exchange, load balancing, or no-notice transportation transactions, the quantity and cost of gas delivered, and the amount and basis of consideration received, if other than gas.

This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument assets not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 421, miscellaneous nonoperating income, will be credited or debited as appropriate with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

A. This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of derivative instrument assets designated by the utility as cash flow or fair value hedges.

B. When a utility designates a derivative instrument asset as a cash flow hedge it will record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to account 219, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

C. When a utility designates a derivative instrument asset as a fair value hedge it shall record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

This account shall include expenses related to the issuance or assumption of debt securities. Amounts recorded in this account shall be amortized over the life of each respective issue under a plan which will distribute the amount equitably over the life of the security. The amortization shall be on a monthly basis, and the amounts thereof shall be charged to account 428, Amortization of Debt Discount and Expense. Any unamortized amounts outstanding at the time that the related debt is prematurely reacquired shall be accounted for as indicated in General Instruction 17.

A. When authorized or directed by the Commission, this account shall include extraordinary losses, which could not reasonably have been anticipated and which are not covered by insurance or other provisions, such as unforeseen damages to property.

B. Application to the Commission for permission to use this account shall be accompanied by a statement giving a complete explanation with respect to the items which it is proposed to include herein, the period over which, and the accounts to which it is proposed to write off the charges, and other pertinent information.

A. This account shall include: (1) Nonrecurring costs of studies and analyses mandated by regulatory bodies related to plants in service, transferred from account 183.2, Other Preliminary Survey and Investigation Charges, and not resulting in construction; and (2) when authorized by the Commission, significant unrecovered costs of plant facilities where construction has been cancelled or which have been prematurely retired.

B. This account shall be credited and account 407.1, Amortization of Property Losses, Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, shall be debited, over the period specified by the Commission.

C. Any additional costs incurred, relative to the cancellation or premature retirement, may be included in this account and amortized over the remaining period of the original amortization period. Should any gains of recoveries be realized relative to the cancelled or prematurely retired plant, such amounts shall be used to reduce the unamortized amount of the costs recorded herein.

D. In the event that the recovery of costs included herein is disallowed in rate proceedings, the disallowed costs shall be charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or account 435, Extraordinary deductions, in the year of such disallowance.
