
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the amounts of regulatory-created assets, not includible in other accounts, resulting from the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. (Definition No. 31.)

B. The amounts included in this account are to be established by those charges which would have been included in net income, or accumulated other comprehensive income, determinations in the current period under the general requirements of the Uniform System of Accounts but for it being probable that such items will be included in a different period(s) for purposes of developing rates that the utility is authorized to charge for its utility services. When specific identification of the particular source of a regulatory asset cannot be made, such as in plant phase-ins, rate moderation plans, or rate levelization plans, account 407.4, regulatory credits, shall be credited. The amounts recorded in this account are generally to be charged, concurrently with the recovery of the amounts in rates, to the same account that would have been charged if included in income when incurred, except all regulatory assets established through the use of account 407.4 shall be charged to account 407.3, Regulatory debits, concurrent with the recovery in rates.

C. If rate recovery of all or part of an amount included in this account is disallowed, the disallowed amount shall be charged to Account 426.5, Other Deductions, or Account 435, Extraordinary Deductions, in the year of the disallowance.

D. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be kept so that the utility can furnish full information as to the nature and amount of each regulatory asset included in this account, including justification for inclusion of such amounts in this account.

A. This account shall be charged with all expenditures for preliminary surveys, plans, investigations, etc. made for the purpose of determining the feasibility of acquiring land and land rights to provide a future supply of natural gas. If such land or land rights are acquired, this account shall be credited and the appropriate gas plant account (see gas plant instruction 7-G) charged with the amount of the expenditures relating to such acquisition. If a project is abandoned involving a natural gas lease acquired before October 8, 1969, the expenditures related thereto shall be charged to account 798, Other Exploration. If a project is abandoned involving a lease acquired after October 7, 1969, the expenditures related thereto shall be charged to account 338, Unsuccessful Exploration and Development Costs.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish, for each investigation, complete information as to the identification and location of territory investigated, the number or other identification assigned to the land tract or leasehold acquired, and the nature and respective amounts of the charges.

A. This account shall be charged with all expenditures for preliminary surveys, plans, investigations, etc., made for the purpose of determining the feasibility of utility projects under contemplation, other than the acquisition of land and land rights to provide a future supply of natural gas. If construction results, this account shall be credited and the appropriate utility plant account charged. If the work is abandoned, the charge shall be made to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or the appropriate operating expense account.

B. This account shall also include costs of studies and analyses mandated by regulatory bodies related to plant in service. If construction results from such studies, this account shall be credited and the appropriate utility plant account charged with an equitable portion of such study costs directly attributable to new construction. The portion of such study costs not attributable to new construction or the entire cost if construction does not result shall be charged to account 182.2, Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, or the appropriate operating expense account. The costs of such studies relative to plant under construction shall be included directly in account 107, Construction Work in Progress-Gas.

C. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish complete information as to the nature and the purpose of the survey, plans, or investigations and the nature and amounts of the several charges.

This caption shall include undistributed balances in clearing accounts at the date of the balance sheet. Balances in clearing accounts shall be substantially cleared not later than the end of the calendar year unless items held therein relate to a future period.

This account shall include amounts shown by work orders for plant installed for temporary use in utility service for periods of less than one year. Such work orders shall be charged with the cost of temporary facilities and credited with payments received from customers and net salvage realized on removal of the temporary facilities. Any net credit or debit resulting shall be cleared to account 488, Miscellaneous Service Revenues.

A. This account shall include all debits not elsewhere provided for, such as miscellaneous work in progress, construction certificate application fees paid prior to final disposition of the application as provided for in gas plant instruction 15A, and unusual or extraordinary expenses not included in other accounts which are in process of amortization, and items the final disposition of which is uncertain.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish full information as to each deferred debit included herein.

This account shall include losses from the sale or other disposition of property previously recorded in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof, where such losses are significant and are to be amortized over a period of 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by the Commission. The amortization of the amounts in this account shall be made by debits to account 411.7, Losses from Disposition of Utility Plant. Subdivision of this account shall be maintained so that amounts relating to account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, can be readily identifiable. (See accounts 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use.)

A. This account shall be charged with the cost of all expenditures coming within the meaning of Research, Development, and Demonstration (R.D. & D.) of this Uniform Systems of Accounts (see definition 28.B), except those expenditures properly chargeable to Account 107, Construction Work in Progress-Gas.

B. Costs that are minor or of a general or recurring nature shall be transferred from this account to the appropriate operating expense function or if such costs are common to the overall operations or cannot be feasibly allocated to the various operating accounts, then such costs shall be recorded in account 930.2, Miscellaneous General Expenses.

C. In certain instances a company may incur large and significant research, development, and demonstration expenditures which are nonrecurring and which would distort the annual research, development, and demonstration charges for the period. In such a case the portion of such amounts that cause the distortion may be amortized to the appropriate operating expense account over a period not to exceed five years unless otherwise authorized by the Commission.

D. The entries in this account must be so maintained as to show separately each project along with complete detail of the nature and purpose of the research, development, and demonstration project together with the related costs.

This account shall include the losses on long-term debt reacquired or redeemed. The amounts in this account shall be amortized in accordance with General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall be debited and account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or account 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with an amount equal to that by which income taxes payable for the year are higher because of the inclusion of certain items in income for tax purposes, which items for general accounting purposes will not be fully reflected in the utility's determination of annual net income until subsequent years.

B. This account shall be credited and account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or account 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with an amount equal to that by which income taxes payable for the year are lower because of prior payment of taxes as provided by paragraph A above, because of difference in timing for tax purposes of particular items of income or income deductions from that recognized by the utility for general accounting purposes. Such credit to this account and debit to account 410.1 or 410.2 shall, in general, represent the effect on taxes payable in the current year of the smaller amount of book income recognized, or the larger deduction permitted, for tax purposes as compared to the amount recognized in the utility's current accounts with respect to the item or class of items for which deferred tax concept of accounting is affected.

C. Vintage year records with respect to entries to this account, as described above, and the account balance shall be so maintained as to show the factor of calculation with respect to each annual amount of the item or class of items for which deferred tax accounting by the utility is utilized.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purpose set forth above. It shall not make use of the balance in this account or any portion thereof except as provided in the text of this account, without prior approval of the Commission. Any remaining deferred tax account balance with respect to an amount for any prior year's tax deferral, the amortization of which or other recognition in the utility's income accounts has been completed, or other disposition made, shall be debited to account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or account 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, or otherwise disposed of as the Commission may authorize or direct. (See General Instruction 18.)

A. This account shall include purchase gas costs related to Commission approved purchased gas adjustment clauses when such costs are not included in the utility's rate schedule on file with the Commission. This account shall also include such other costs as authorized by the Commission.

B. This account shall be debited or credited, as appropriate, each month for increases or decreases in purchased gas costs with contra entries to Account 805.1, Purchased Gas Cost Adjustments.

C. After a change in a rate schedule recognizing the increases or decreases in purchased gas costs recorded in this account is approved by the Commission, this account shall be debited or credited, as appropriate, with contra entries to expense Account 805.1, Purchased Gas Cost Adjustments, so that the balance accumulated in this account will be amortized on an appropriate basis over a succeeding 6-month period or over such other periods that the Commission may have authorized. Any over or under applied debits or credits to this account shall be carried forward to the succeeding period of amortization.

D. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for the amounts relating to the period in which the increase or decrease is accumulated and for the amortization of purchase gas increases or decreases, as applicable, so as to keep each period separate.

A. These accounts shall include the par value or the stated value of stock without par value if such stock has a stated value, and, if not, the cash value of the consideration received for such nonpar stock, of each class of capital stock actually issued, including the par or stated value of such capital stock in account 124, Other Investments and account 217, Reacquired Capital Stock.

B. When the actual cash value of the consideration received is more or less than the par or stated value of any stock having a par or stated value, the difference shall be credited or debited, as the case may be, to the premium or discount account for the particular class and series.

C. When capital stock is retired, these accounts shall be charged with the amount at which such stock is carried herein.

D. A separate ledger account, with a descriptive title, shall be maintained for each class and series of stock. The supporting records shall show the shares nominally issued, actually issued, and nominally outstanding.

A. These accounts shall include the amount of legally enforceable subscriptions to capital stock of the utility. They shall be credited with the par or stated value of the stock subscribed, exclusive of accrued dividends, if any. Concurrently, a debit shall be made to subscriptions to capital stock, included as a Other Accounts Receivable, for the agreed price and any discount or premium shall be debited or credited to the appropriate discount or premium account. When properly executed stock certificates have been issued representing the shares subscribed, this account separate subdivision of account 143, shall be debited, and the appropriate capital stock account credited, with the par or stated value of such stock.

B. The records shall be kept in such manner as to show the amount of subscriptions to each class and series of stock.

A. These accounts shall include the par value or stated value, as appropriate, of capital stock which the utility has agreed to exchange for outstanding securities of other companies in connection with the acquisition of properties of such companies under terms which allow the holders of the securities of the other companies to surrender such securities and receive in return therefor capital stock of the accounting utility.

B. When the securities of the other companies have been surrendered and capital stock issued in accordance with the terms of the exchange, these accounts shall be charged and accounts 201, Common Stock Issued, or 204, Preferred Stock Issued, as the case may be, shall be credited.

C. The records shall be kept so as to show separately the stocks of each class and series for which a conversion liability exists.

A. This account shall include, in a separate subdivision for each class and series of stock, the excess of the actual cash value of the consideration received on original issues of capital stock over the par or stated value and accrued dividends of such stock, together with assessments against stockholders representing payments required in excess of par or stated values.

B. Premium on capital stock shall not be set off against expenses. Further, a premium received on an issue of a certain class or series of stock shall not be set off against expenses of another issue of the same class or series.

C. When capital stock which has been actually issued is retired, the amount in this account applicable to the shares retired shall be transferred to account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock.

This account shall include the balance of credits for donations received from stockholders consisting of capital stock of the utility, cancellation or reduction of debt of the utility, and the cash value of other assets received as a donation.

This account shall include the balance of credits arising from a reduction in the par or stated value of capital stock.

This account shall include the balance of credits arising from the resale or cancellation of reacquired capital stock. (See account 217, Reacquired Capital Stock.)

This account shall include the balance of all other credits for paid.in capital which are not properly includible in the foregoing accounts. This account may include all commissions and expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of capital stock.

A. This account shall include in a separate subdivision for each class and series of capital stock the amount of installments received on capital stock on a partial or installment payment plan from subscribers who are not bound by legally enforceable subscription contracts.

B. As subscriptions are paid in full and certificates issued, this account shall be charged and the appropriate capital stock account credited with the par or stated value of such stock. Any discount or premium on an original issue shall be included in the appropriate discount or premium account.

A. This account shall include in a separate subdivision for each class and series of capital stock all discount on the original issuance and sale of capital stock, including additional capital stock of a particular class or series as well as first issues.

B. When capital stock which has been actually issued is retired, the amount in this account applicable to the shares retired shall be written off to account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, provided, however, that the amount shall be charged to account 439, Adjustments to Retained Earnings, to the extent that it exceeds the balance in account 210.

A. This account shall include in a separate subdivision for each class and series of stock all commissions and expenses incurred in connection with the original issuance and sale of capital stock, including additional capital stock of a particular class or series as well as first issues. Expenses applicable to capital stock shall not be deducted from premium on capital stock.

B. When capital stock which has been actually issued by the utility is retired, the amount in this account applicable to the shares retired shall be written off to account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, provided, however, that the amount shall be charged to account 439, Adjustments to Retained Earnings, to the extent that it exceeds the balance in account 210.

This account shall include the amount of earned surplus which has been appropriated or set aside for specific purposes. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained under such titles as will designate the purpose for which each appropriation was made.

This account shall include the balances, either debit or credit, of unappropriated retained earnings arising from earnings of the utility. This account shall not include any amounts representing the undistributed earnings of subsidiary companies.

This account shall include the balances, either debit or credit, of undistributed retained earnings of subsidiary companies since their acquisition. When dividends are received from subsidiary companies and the balances have been included in this account, this account shall be debited and account 216, Unappropriated Retained Earnings, credited.

A. This account shall include in a separate subdivision for each class and series of capital stock, the cost of capital stock actually issued by the utility and reacquired by it and not retired or canceled, except, however, stock which is held by trustees in sinking or other funds.

B. When reacquired capital stock is retired or canceled, the difference between its cost, including commissions and expenses paid in connection with the reacquisition, and its par or stated value plus any premium and less any discount and expenses applicable to the shares retired, shall be debited or credited, as appropriate, to account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, provided, however, that debits shall be charged to account 439, Adjustments to Retained Earnings, to the extent that they exceed the balance in account 210.

C. When reacquired capital stock is resold by the utility, the difference between the amount received on the resale of the stock, less expenses incurred in the resale, and the cost of the stock included in this account shall be accounted for as outlined in paragraph B.

A. This account shall include revenues, expenses, gains, and losses that are properly includable in other comprehensive income during the period. Examples of other comprehensive income include foreign currency items, minimum pension liability adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities, and cash flow hedges. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be maintained so that the utility can furnish the amount of other comprehensive income for each item included in this account.

B. This account shall also be debited or credited, as appropriate, with amounts of accumulated other comprehensive income that have been included in the determination of net income during the period and in accumulated other comprehensive income in prior periods. Separate records for each category of items will be maintained to identify the amount of the reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings made during the period.

This account shall include in a separate subdivision for each class and series of bonds the face value of the actually issued and unmatured bonds which have not been retired or canceled; also the face value of such bonds issued by others the payment of which has been assumed by the utility.

A. This account shall include the face value of bonds actually issued or assumed by the utility and reacquired by it and not retired, or canceled. The account for reacquired debt shall not include securities which are held by trustee in sinking or other funds.

B. When bonds are reacquired, the difference between face value, adjusted for unamortized discount, expenses or premium, and the amount paid upon reacquisition, shall be included in account 189, Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt, or account 257, Unamortized Gain on Reacquired Debt, as appropriate. (See General Instruction 17.)

A. This account shall include the face value of notes payable to associated companies and the amount of open book accounts representing advances from associated companies. It does not include notes and open accounts representing indebtedness subject to current settlement which are includible in account 233, Notes Payable to Associated Companies, or account 234, Accounts Payable to Associated Companies.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish complete information concerning each note and open account.

A. This account shall include, until maturity, all long-term debt not otherwise provided for. This covers such items as receivers' certificates, real estate mortgages executed or assumed, assessments for public improvements, notes and unsecured certificates of indebtedness not owned by associated companies, receipts outstanding for long-term debt, and other obligations maturing more than one year from date of issue or assumption.

B. Separate accounts shall be maintained for each class of obligation, and records shall be maintained to show for each class all details as to date of obligation, date of maturity, interest dates and rates, security for the obligation, etc.

A. This account shall include the excess of the cash value of consideration received over the face value upon the issuance or assumption of long-term debt securities.

B. Amounts recorded in this account shall be amortized over the life of each respective issue under a plan which will distribute the amount equitably over the life of the security. The amortization shall be on a monthly basis, with the amounts thereof to be credited to account 429, Amortization of Premium on Debt-Credit. (See General Instruction 17.)

A. This account shall include the excess of the face value of long-term debt securities over the cash value of consideration received therefor, related to the issue or assumption of all types and classes of debt.

B. Amounts recorded in this account shall be amortized over the life of the respective issues under a plan which will distribute the amount equitably over the life of the securities. The amortization shall be on a monthly basis, with the amounts thereof charged to account 428, Amortization of Debt Discount and Expense. (See General Instruction 17.)

This account shall include the portion not due within one year, of the obligations recorded for the amounts applicable to leased property recorded as assets in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases, or account 121, Nonutility property.

A. This account shall include amounts reserved by the utility for losses through accident, fire, flood, or other hazards to its own property or property leased from others, not covered by insurance. The amounts charged to account 924, Property Insurance, or other appropriate accounts to cover such risks shall be credited to this account. A schedule of risks covered shall be maintained, giving a description of the property involved, the character of the risks covered and the rates used.

B. Charges shall be made to this account for losses covered, not to exceed the account balance. Details of these charges shall be maintained according to the year the casualty occurred which gave rise to the loss.

A. This account shall be credited with amounts charged to account 925, Injuries and Damages, or other appropriate accounts, to meet the probable liability, not covered by insurance, for deaths or injuries to employees and others, and for damages to property neither owned nor held under lease by the utility.

B. When liability for any injury or damage is admitted by the utility either voluntarily or because of the decision of a court or other lawful authority, such as a workmens' compensation board, the admitted liability shall be charged to this account and credited to the appropriate current liability account. Details of these charges shall be maintained according to the year the casualty occurred which gave rise to the loss.

A. This account shall include provisions made by the utility and amounts contributed by employees for pensions, accident and death benefits, savings, relief, hospital and other provident purposes, where the funds are included in the assets of the utility either in general or in segregated fund accounts.

B. Amounts paid by the utility for the purposes for which this liability is established shall be charged hereto.

C. A separate account shall be kept for each kind of provision included herein.

A. This account shall include all operating provisions which are not provided for elsewhere.

B. This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show the amount of each separate provision and the nature and amounts of the debits and credits thereto.

A. This account shall be credited with amounts charged to Account 496, Provision for Rate Refunds, to provide for estimated refunds where the utility is collecting amounts in rates subject to refund.

B. When a refund of any amount recorded in this account is ordered by a regulatory authority, such amount shall be charged hereto and credited to Account 242, Miscellaneous Current and Accrued Liabilities.

C. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be kept so as to identify each amount recorded by the respective rate filing docket number.

A. This account shall include the amount of liabilities for the recognition of asset retirement obligations related to gas utility plant and nonutility plant that gives rise to the obligations. This account shall be credited for the amount of the liabilities for asset retirement obligations with amounts charged to the appropriate gas utility plant accounts or nonutility plant accounts to record the related asset retirement costs.

B. This account shall also include the period to period changes for the accretion of the liabilities in account 230, Asset retirement obligations. The utility shall charge the accretion expense to account 411.10, Accretion expense, for gas utility plant, account 413, Expenses of gas plant leased to others, for gas plant leased to others, or account 421, Miscellaneous nonoperating income, for nonutility plant, as appropriate, and credit account 230, Asset retirement obligations.

C. This account shall be debited with amounts paid to settle the asset retirement obligations recorded herein.

D. The utility shall clear from this account any gains or losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations in accordance with the instructions prescribed in General Instruction 24.

This account shall include the face value of all notes, drafts, acceptances, or other similar evidences of indebtedness, payable on demand or within a time not exceeding one year from date of issue, to other than associated companies.

This account shall include all amounts payable by the utility within one year, which are not provided for in other accounts.

These accounts shall include amounts owing to associated companies on notes, drafts, acceptances, or other similar evidences of indebtedness, and open accounts payable on demand or not more than one year from date of issue or creation.

This account shall include all amounts deposited with the utility by customers as security for the payment of bills.

A. This account shall be credited with the amount of taxes accrued during the accounting period, corresponding debits being made to the appropriate accounts for tax charges. Such credits may be based upon estimates, but from time to time during the year as the facts become known, the amount of the periodic credits shall be adjusted so as to include as nearly as can be determined in each year the taxes applicable thereto. Any amount representing a prepayment of taxes applicable to the period subsequent to the date of the balance sheet, shall be shown under account 165, Prepayments.

B. If accruals for taxes are found to be insufficient or excessive, correction therefor shall be made through current tax accruals.

C. Accruals for taxes shall be based upon the net amounts payable after credit for any discounts, and shall not include any amounts for interest on tax deficiencies or refunds. Interest received on refunds shall be credited to account 419, Interest and Dividend Income, and interest paid on deficiencies shall be charged to account 431, Other Interest Expense.

D. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be kept so as to show for each class of taxes, the amount accrued, the basis for the accrual, the accounts to which charged, and the amount of tax paid.

This account shall include the amount of interest accrued but not matured on all liabilities of the utility not including, however, interest which is added to the principal of the debt on which incurred. Supporting records shall be maintained so as to show the amount of interest accrued on each obligation.

This account shall include the amount of dividends which have been declared but not paid. Dividends shall be credited to this account when they become a liability.

This account shall include the amount of long-term debt (including any obligation for premiums) matured and unpaid, without specific agreement for extension of the time of payment and bonds called for redemption but not presented.

This account shall include the amount of matured interest on long-term debt or other obligations of the utility at the date of the balance sheet unless such interest is added to the principal of the debt on which incurred.

This account shall include the amount of taxes collected by the utility through payroll deductions or otherwise pending transmittal of such taxes to the proper taxing authority.

A. This account shall include the amount of all other current and accrued liabilities not provided for elsewhere appropriately designated and supported as to show the nature of each liability.

B. The utility is to include in a separate subaccount amounts payable for gas in unbalanced transactions where gas is received from another party in exchange, load balancing, or no-notice transportation transactions. (See Account 806.) If the amount payable is settled by other than gas, Account 495, Other Gas Revenues, must be credited or Account 813, Other gas supply expenses, charged for the difference between the amount of the consideration paid and the recorded amount of the payable settled. Records are to be maintained so that there is readily available for each party entering gas exchange, load balancing, or no-notice transportation transactions, the quantity and cost of gas received and the amount and basis of consideration paid if other than gas.

This account shall include the portion due within one year, of the obligations recorded for the amounts applicable to leased property recorded as assets in account 101.1, Property under Capital Leases, or account 121, Non-Utility Property.

This account shall include the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument liabilities not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 426.5, other deductions, shall be debited or credited as appropriate with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

A. This account shall include the change in the fair value of derivative instrument liabilities designated by the utility as cash flow or fair value hedges.

B. A utility shall record the change in the fair value of a derivative liability related to a cash flow hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to account 219, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be charged when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

C. A utility shall record the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument liability related to a fair value hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be charged when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

This account shall include advances by customers for construction which are to be refunded either wholly or in part. When a customer is refunded the entire amount to which he is entitled, according to the agreement or rule under which the advance was made, the balance, if any, remaining in this account shall be credited to the respective plant account.

This account shall include advance billings and receipts and other deferred credit items, not provided for elsewhere, including amounts which cannot be entirely cleared or disposed of until additional information has been received.
