
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter F - Accounts, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 201 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR NATURAL GAS COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE NATURAL GAS ACT
##### See

A. This account shall include the amounts of regulatory liabilities, not includible in other accounts, imposed on the utility by the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. (Definition No. 30.)

B. The amounts included in this account are to be established by those credits which would have been included in net income, or accumulated other comprehensive income, determinations in the current period under the general requirements of the Uniform System of Accounts but for it being probable that: Such items will be included in a different period(s) for purposes of developing the rates that the utility is authorized to charge for its utility services; or refunds to customers, not provided for in other accounts, will be required. When specific identification of the particular source of the regulatory liability cannot be made or when the liability arises from revenues collected pursuant to tariffs on file at a regulatory agency, account 407.3, regulatory debits, shall be debited. The amounts recorded in this account generally are to be credited to the same account that would have been credited if included in income when earned except: All regulatory liabilities established through the use of account 407.3 shall be credited to account 407.4, regulatory credits; and in the case of refunds, a cash account or other appropriate account should be credited when the obligation is satisfied.

C. If it is later determined that the amounts recorded in this account will not be returned to customers through rates or refunds, such amounts shall be credited to Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 434, Extraordinary Income, as appropriate, in the year such determination is made.

D. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish full information as to the nature and amount of each regulatory liability included in this account, including justification for inclusion of such amounts in this account.

A. This account shall be credited with all investment tax credits deferred by companies which have elected to follow deferral accounting, partial or full, rather than recognizing in the income statement the total benefits of the tax credit as realized. After such election, a company may not transfer amounts from this account, except as authorized herein and in accounts 411.4, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Utility Operations, 411.5, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Nonutility Operations, and 420, Investment Tax Credits, or with approval of the Commission.

B. Where the company's accounting provides that investment tax credits are to be passed on to customers, this account shall be debited and account 411.4 credited with a proportionate amount determined in relation to the average useful life of gas utility plant to which the tax credits relate to such lesser period of time as allowed by a regulatory agency having rate jurisdiction. If, however, the deferral procedure provides that investment tax credits are not to be passed on to customers the proportionate restorations to income shall be credited to account 420.

C. If any of the investment tax credits to be deferred are related to utility operations other than gas or to non- utility operations, appropriate subdivisions of this account shall be maintained. Contra entries affecting such subdivisions shall be appropriately recorded in accounts 413, Expenses of Gas Plant Leased to Others; or 414, Other Utility Operating Income.

D. Records shall be maintained identifying the properties related to the investment tax credits for each year, the weighted average service life of such properties, and any unused balance of such credits. Such records are not necessary unless the credits are deferred.

This account shall include gains from the sale or other disposition of property previously recorded in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof, where such gains are significant and are to be amortized over a period of 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by the Commission. The amortization of the amounts in this account shall be made by credits to account 411.6, Gains from Disposition of Utility Plant. Subdivision of this account shall be maintained so that amounts relating to account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, can be readily identifiable. (See accounts 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use.)

This account shall include the amounts of discount realized upon reacquisition or redemption of long-term debt. The amounts in this account shall be amortized in accordance with General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall include tax deferrals resulting from adoption of the principles of comprehensive interperiod tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts that relate to property for which the utility has availed itself of the use of accelerated (5-year) amortization of (1) certified defense facilities as permitted by Section 168 of the Internal Revenue Code and (2) certified pollution control facilities as permitted by Section 169 of the Internal Revenue Code.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in this account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale, exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of plant on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax expense, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited. When the remaining balance, after consideration of any related income tax expense, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted. When plant is disposed of by transfer to a wholly owned subsidiary the related balance in this account shall also be transferred. When the disposition relates to retirement of an item or items under a group method of depreciation where there is no tax effect in the year of retirement, no entries are required in this account if it can be determined that the related balances would be necessary to be retained to offset future group item tax deficiencies.

A. This account shall include the tax deferrals resulting from adoption of the principle of comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts which are related to all property other than accelerated amortization property.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited with tax effects related to property described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in this account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale, exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of plant on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax expense, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Income Taxes Deferred in Prior Years-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Income Taxes Deferred in Prior Years-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, shall be credited. When the remaining balance, after consideration of any related tax expenses, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted. When plant disposed of by transfer to a wholly owned subsidiary, the related balance in this account shall also be transferred. When the disposition relates to retirement of an item or items under a group method of depreciation where there is no tax effect in the year of retirement, no entries are required in this account if it can be determined that the related balance would be necessary to be retained to offset future group item tax deficiencies.

A. This account shall include all credit tax deferrals resulting from the adoption of the principles of comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation described in General Instruction 18 of this system of accounts other than those deferrals which are includible in Accounts 281, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Accelerated Amortization Property and 282, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other Property.

B. This account shall be credited and accounts 410.1 Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or 410.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be debited with tax effects related to items described in paragraph A above where taxable income is lower than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

C. This account shall be debited and accounts 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income or 411.2, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate shall be credited with tax effects related to items described in paragraph A above where taxable income is higher than pretax accounting income due to differences between the periods in which revenue and expense transactions affect taxable income and the periods in which they enter into the determination of pretax accounting income.

D. Records with respect to entries to this account, as described above, and the account balance, shall be so maintained as to show the factors of calculation with respect to each annual amount of the item or class of items.

E. The utility is restricted in its use of this account to the purposes set forth above. It shall not transfer the balance in the account or any portion thereof to retained earnings or to any other account or make any use thereof except as provided in the text of this account, without prior approval of the Commission. Upon the disposition by sale, exchange, transfer, abandonment or premature retirement of items on which there is a related balance herein, this account shall be charged with an amount equal to the related income tax effect, if any, arising from such disposition and account 411.1, Provision For Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, or 411.2, Provision For Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate, shall be credited. When the remaining balance, after consideration of any related tax expenses, is less than $25,000, this account shall be charged and account 411.1 or 411.2, as appropriate, credited with such balance. If after consideration of any related income tax expense, there is a remaining amount of $25,000 or more, the Commission shall authorize or direct how such amount shall be accounted for at the time approval for the disposition of accounting is granted.

This account shall include all fees paid to Federal or State governments for the privilege of incorporation and expenditures incident to organizing the corporation, partnership, or other enterprises and putting it into readiness to do business.

A. This account shall include amounts paid to the Federal Government, to a State or to a political subdivision thereof in consideration for franchises, consents, or certificates, running in perpetuity or for a specified term of more than 1 year, together with necessary and reasonable expenses incident to procuring such franchises, consents, or certificates of permission and approval, including expenses of organizing and merging separate corporations, where statutes require, solely for the purpose of acquiring franchises.

B. If a franchise, consent, or certificate is acquired by assignment, the charge to this account in respect thereof shall not exceed the amount paid therefor by the utility to the assignor, nor shall it exceed the amount paid by the original grantee, plus the expense of acquisition to such grantee. Any excess of the amount actually paid by the utility over the amount above specified shall be charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions.

C. When any franchise has expired, the book cost thereof shall be credited hereto and charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or to account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, as appropriate.

D. Records supporting this account shall be kept so as to show separately the book cost of each franchise or consent.

A. This account shall include the cost of patent rights, licenses, privileges, and other intangible property necessary or valuable in the conduct of the utility's gas operations and not specifically chargeable to any other account.

B. When any item included in this account is retired or expires, the book cost thereof shall be credited hereto and charged to account 426.5, Other Deductions, or account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, as appropriate.

C. This account shall be maintained in such a manner that the utility can furnish full information with respect to the amounts included herein.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with manufactured gas production. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost of structures and improvements used in connection with manufactured gas production. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of furnaces, boilers, steam and feed water piping, boiler apparatus, and accessories used in the production of steam at gas production plants.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of electric generating and accessory equipment used for supplying electricity in gas production plants.

B. This account shall also include the cost installed of miscellaneous power equipment at gas production plants which is not included in any other account.

This account shall include the cost installed of coke ovens used for the production of gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for the production of producer gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in the generation of water gas.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for the production of gas from petroleum derivatives, such as propane, butane, or gasoline.

B. Subdivisions of this account shall be maintained for each producing process for which this account is provided. A separate subaccount shall be maintained also for bottling equipment included herein.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for generating oil gas.

This account shall include, with subdivisions for each type of gas produced, the cost installed of generating equipment which is not included in any of the foregoing accounts, such as benches and retorts for the production of coal gas, equipment used for generating acetylene gas, etc.

This account shall include the cost installed of structures or equipment used for the transportation, storage, washing, and treatment of coal, coke, and ashes, when used for general gas plant operations.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for producing gas by the catalytic cracking process.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment, other than catalytic cracking equipment, used primarily for reforming gas with resultant changes in its chemical composition and calorific value.

This account shall include the cost installed of apparatus used for the removal of impurities from gas and apparatus for conditioning gas, including pumps, wells, and other accessory apparatus.

This account shall include the cost installed of apparatus used in refining and handling of residuals except where the apparatus is necessary for the operation of property included in account 317, Purification Equipment.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for mixing manufactured and natural gas, or the mixing of other gases incident to delivery of such mixed gases to the distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in the production of gas, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the manufactured gas production plant function.

This account shall include the cost of lands held in fee on which producing natural gas wells are located, and lands held in fee which are being drained of natural gas through the operation by the utility of wells on other land. (See gas plant instruction 7-G.)

A. This account shall include the cost of acquiring leaseholds on which the utility pays royalties for natural gas obtained therefrom. (See gas plant instruction 7-G.)

B. Exclude from this account rents paid periodically for rights obtained under leases. Exclude also from this account the cost of leaseholds which terminate in one year or less after they become effective.

This account shall include the cost of natural gas rights used in producing natural gas, whereby the utility obtains ownership in gas underlying land not owned or leased by the utility. It does not provide for gas rights which are leased and which are properly chargeable to account 325.2, Producing Leaseholds.

This account shall include the cost of all interests in land which terminate more than 1 year after they become effective and on which are located gathering pipelines, telephone pole lines, and like property used in connection with the production of natural gas. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with the production of natural gas, when not properly assignable to any of the foregoing accounts. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost of well structures and improvements used in connection with the housing of permanent bailers and other equipment necessary to keep the wells in operation. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of structures and improvements used in connection with the housing of compressor station equipment used to raise the pressure of natural gas before it is conveyed to the terminus of the field lines. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of structures and improvements used in connection with the housing of meters, regulators, and appurtenant appliances for measuring and regulating natural gas before the point where it enters the transmission or distribution system. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of structures and improvements used in connection with natural gas production and gathering not provided for elsewhere. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of drilling producing gas wells.

This account shall include the cost of equipment in producing gas wells.

This account shall include the cost installed of field lines used in conveying natural gas from the wells to the point where it enters the transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor station equipment and associated appliances used to raise the pressure of natural gas before it is conveyed to the terminus of the field lines.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges, and other equipment used in measuring and regulating natural gas collected in field lines before the point where it enters the transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost of implements and equipment used in drilling and cleaning natural gas wells.

This account shall include the cost installed of apparatus used for the removal of impurities from gas and apparatus for conditioning gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in the production and gathering of natural gas, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

A. This account shall include unsuccessful exploration and development costs incurred on or related to hydrocarbon leases, on properties in the contiguous 48 States and the State of Alaska, acquired after October 7, 1969. It shall also include costs of a preliminary nature incurred in the search for natural gas in such areas after October 7, 1969.

B. The costs recorded in this account shall be amortized by debiting account 404.1, Amortization and Depletion of Producing Natural Gas Land and Land Rights, and crediting this account using the unit-of-production or other acceptable method of amortization as hydrocarbons are extracted from producing wells.

C. In general, the unamortized costs recorded in this account shall not exceed the net realizable value (estimated selling price less estimated costs of extraction, completion and disposal) of proven hydrocarbon reserves on leases acquired after October 7, 1969. (See "Special Instructions-Costs Related to Leases Acquired After October 7, 1969," above.)

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the natural gas production and gathering plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with the processing of natural gas for removal of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost of structures and improvements used in connection with the processing of natural gas for removal of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used for the extraction from natural gas of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products and for the refining of such products.

This account shall include the cost installed of gas and liquids pipe lines used in connection with the processing of natural gas for the removal of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products, exclusive of runs of pipe appropriately includible in other equipment accounts, embracing principally off-site gas, gasoline gathering, and loading lines not includible as yard piping in account 342, Extraction and Refining Equipment.

This account shall include the cost installed of storage tanks and associated equipment used in the storing, prior to sale, of gasoline, butane, propane, and other salable products extracted from natural gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor equipment and associated appliances used in connection with the receipt, processing, and return of natural gas processed for removal of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges, and other equipment used in measuring or regulating natural gas received and/or returned from processing for removal of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in processing natural gas and refining gasoline, butane, propane, and other salable products extracted from natural gas, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

The above accounts are to be used by the transmission and distribution companies for the classification of storage facilities used for peak shaving operations. The accounts shall be subdivided to classify the peak shaving storage facilities according to the transmission or distribution function, if the utility operates both transmission and distribution systems. Only base load liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing facilities are to be classified in accounts 364.1 through 364.8.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the products extraction plant function.

This account shall include the cost of lands held in fee on which underground storage wells are located, and other lands held in fee within an area utilized for the underground storage of gas. (See gas plant instruction 7-G.)

This account shall include the cost of all interests in land which do not terminate until more than 1 year after they become effective and on which are located underground storage lines, telephone poles lines, and like property used in connection with underground gas storage operations. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

A. This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used wholly or predominantly in connection with underground storage of natural gas. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

B. This account shall be subdivided as follows:

This account shall include the drilling cost of wells used for injection and withdrawal of gas from underground storage projects, including wells kept open and used for observation.

A. This account shall include the cost of leaseholds, storage rights, mineral deeds, etc. on lands for the purpose of utilizing subsurface reservoirs for underground gas storage operations. (See gas plant instruction 7-G.)

B. Exclude from this account rents or other charges paid periodically for use of subsurface reservoirs for underground gas storage purposes.

This account shall include costs to prepare underground reservoirs for the storage of natural gas.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas in underground reservoirs, including depleted gas or oil fields and other underground caverns or reservoirs used for the storage of gas which will not be recoverable.

B. Such nonrecoverable gas shall be priced at cost according to generally accepted methods of cost determination consistently applied. (See the Special Instructions to Accounts 117.1, 117.2, and 117.3.

This account shall include the cost installed of gas pipe lines used wholly or predominantly for conveying gas from point of connection with transmission or field lines to underground storage wells and from underground storage wells to the point where the gas enters the transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor station equipment used wholly or predominantly for the purpose of raising the pressure of gas for delivery to underground storage or to raise the pressure of gas withdrawn from underground storage for delivery to the transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed if equipment used wholly or predominantly for the purpose of measuring and regulating deliveries of gas to underground storage and withdrawals of gas from underground storage.

This account shall include the cost installed of apparatus used wholly or predominantly for the removal of impurities from and the conditioning of, gas delivered to or removed from underground storage fields.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used wholly or predominantly in connection with underground storage of gas, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the underground storage plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with the storage of gas in holders. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with the storage of gas in holders. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost installed of holders and associated appliances used in the storage of gas above ground, or in underground receptacles.

This account shall include the cost installed of apparatus used for the removal of impurities from gas and apparatus for conditioning gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in liquefaction of natural gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of vaporizing equipment used in connection with liquefied natural gas storage.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor equipment and associated appliances used in connection with other storage plant.

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used to measure deliveries of gas to other storage and withdrawals of gas from other storage.

This account shall include the cost installed of other equipment used in connection with the storage of gas in holders.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the other storage plant function.

A. This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing operations. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

A. This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing operations. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

B. This account shall be subdivided as follows:

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used to receive, hold, and regasify liquefied natural gas for delivery into the utility's transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost of vehicles used for the transportation of liquefied natural gas.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges and other equipment used in base load LNG operations for measuring or regulating natural gas prior to its entrance into the utility's transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor station equipment and associated appliances used in connection with liquefied natural gas operations prior to entrance of vaporized gas into the utility's transmission or distribution system.

This account shall include the cost installed of radio, telephone, microwave, and other equipment used wholly or predominantly in connection with the operation and maintenance of the liquefied natural gas system. (See also accounts 370 and 397, Communication Equipment.)

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in liquefied natural gas operations, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the base load liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights except rights-of-way used in connection with transmission operations. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost of rights-of-way used in connection with transmission operations. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

A. This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with transmission operations. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

B. This account shall be subdivided as follows:

A. This account shall include the cost installed of transmission system mains.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so kept as to show separately the cost of mains of different sizes and types and of each tunnel, bridge, or river crossing.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor station equipment and associated appliances used in connection with transmission system operations.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges, and other equipment used in measuring or regulating gas in connection with transmission system operations.

This account shall include the cost installed of radio, telephone, microwave, and other equipment used wholly or predominantly in connection with the operation and maintenance of the gas transmission system. (See also account 397, Communication Equipment.)

This account shall include the cost installed of equipment used in transmission system operations, when not assignable to any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the transmission plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used in connection with distribution operations. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used in connection with distribution operations. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

A. This account shall include the cost installed of distribution system mains.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so kept as to show separately the cost of mains of different sizes and types and of each tunnel, bridge, or river crossing.

This account shall include the cost installed of compressor station equipment and associated appliances used in connection with distribution system operations.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges and other equipment used in measuring and regulating gas in connection with distribution system operations other than the measurement of gas deliveries to customers.

This account shall include the cost installed of meters, gauges, and other equipment used in measuring and regulating the receipt of gas at entry points to distribution systems.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of service pipes and accessories leading to the customers' premises.

B. A complete service begins with the connection on the main and extends to but does not include the connection with the customer's meter. A stub service extends from the main to the property line, or the curb stop.

C. Services which have been used but have become inactive shall be retired from utility plant in service immediately if there is no prospect for reuse, and, in any event, shall be retired by the end of the second year following that during which the service became inactive unless reused in the interim.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of meters or devices and appurtenances thereto, for use in measuring gas delivered to users, whether actually in service or held in reserve.

B. When a meter is permanently retired from service, the installed cost included herein shall be credited to this account.

C. The records of meters shall be so kept that the utility can furnish information as to the number of meters of each type and capacity in service and in reserve as well as the location of each meter.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor and materials used, and expenses incurred in connection with the original installation of customer meters.

B. When a meter installation is permanently retired from service, the cost thereof shall be credited to this account.

A. This account shall include the cost installed of house regulators whether actually in service or held in reserve.

B. When a house regulator is permanently retired from service, the installed cost thereof shall be credited to this account.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor and materials used and expenses incurred in connection with the original installation of house regulators.

B. When a house regulator installation is permanently retired from service, the cost thereof shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include the cost of special and expensive installations of measuring and regulating station equipment, located on the distribution system, serving large industrial customers.

This account shall include the cost, including first setting and connecting, of equipment owned by the utility installed on customer premises which is not includible in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost installed of all other distribution system equipment not provided for in the foregoing accounts, including street lighting equipment.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the distribution plant function.

This account shall include the cost of land and land rights used for utility purposes, the cost of which is not properly includible in other land and land rights accounts. (See gas plant instruction 7.)

This account shall include the cost in place of structures and improvements used for utility purposes, the cost of which is not properly includible in other structures and improvements accounts. (See gas plant instruction 8.)

This account shall include the cost of office furniture and equipment owned by the utility and devoted to utility service, and not permanently attached to buildings, except the cost of such furniture and equipment which the utility elects to assign to other plant accounts on a functional basis.

This account shall include the cost of transportation vehicles used for utility purposes.

This account shall include the cost of equipment used for the receiving, shipping, handling and storage of materials and supplies.

This account shall include the cost of tools, implements, and equipment used in construction, repair work, general shops and garages and not specifically provided for or includible in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost installed of laboratory equipment used for general laboratory purposes and not specially provided for or includible in other departmental or functional plant accounts.

This account shall include the cost of power operated equipment used in construction or repair work exclusive of equipment includible in other accounts. Include, also, the tools and accessories acquired for use with such equipment and the vehicle on which such equipment is mounted.

This account shall include the cost installed of telephone, telegraph and wireless equipment for general use in connection with the utility's gas operations. (See account 370 for communication equipment used wholly or predominantly in connection with operation and maintenance of the transmission system.)

This account shall include the cost of equipment, apparatus, etc., used and useful in gas operations, which is not includible in any other account.

This account shall include the cost of tangible utility plant not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plant included in the general plant function.

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the gas operating revenue accounts provided herein.

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the gas operation expense accounts provided herein. (See note to operating expense instruction 3.)

There shall be shown under this caption the total amount included in the gas maintenance expense accounts provided herein.

A. This account shall include the amount of depreciation expense for all classes of depreciable gas plant in service except such depreciation expense as is chargeable to clearing accounts or to account 416, Costs and Expenses of Merchandising, Jobbing and Contract Work.

B. The utility shall keep such records of property and property retirements as will reflect the service life of property which has been retired and aid in estimating probable service life by mortality, turnover, or other appropriate methods; and also such records as will reflect the percentage of salvage and cost of removal for property retired from each account, or subdivision thereof, for depreciable gas plant.

This account shall include the depreciation expense for asset retirement costs included in gas utility plant in service.

A. This account shall include charges for amortization and depletion of producing natural gas land and land rights. (See account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant).

B. The charges to this account shall be made in such manner as to distribute the cost of producing natural gas land and land rights over the period of their benefit to the utility, based upon the exhaustion of the natural gas deposits recoverable from such land and land rights.

A. This account shall include charges for amortization of land and land rights of underground storage projects for natural gas. (See account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant.)

B. The charges to this account shall be made in such manner as to distribute the cost of amortizable land and land rights over the period of their benefit to the utility, and with respect to any land or land rights which include native gas in the storage reservoir, such amounts shall be amortized or depleted on the basis of production of such native gas after the volume of stored gas has been withdrawn from the reservoir.

This account shall include amortization charges applicable to amounts included in the gas plant accounts for limited-term franchises, licenses, patent rights limited-term interests in land, and expenditures on leased property where the service life of the improvements is terminable by action of the lease. The charges to this account shall be such as to distribute the book cost of each investment as evenly as may be over the period of its benefit to the utility. (See account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant.)

A. When authorized by the Commission, this account shall include charges for amortization of intangible or other gas utility plant, which does not have a definite or terminable life and which is not subject to charges for depreciation expense.

B. This account shall be supported in such detail as to show the amortization applicable to each investment being amortized, together with the book cost of the investment and the period over which it is being written off.

This account shall be debited or credited, as the case may be, with amounts includible in operating expenses, pursuant to approval or order of the Commission, for the purpose of providing for the extinguishment of the amount in account 114, Gas Plant Acquisition Adjustments.

This account shall be charged with amounts credited to Account 182.1, Extraordinary Property Losses, and Account 182.2 Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, when the Commission has authorized the amount in the latter account to be amortized by charges to gas operating expenses.

This account shall be charged with amortization of amounts authorized by the Commission to be included in Account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, for expenses incurred in the conversion of distribution plant from manufactured gas service to natural gas service.

This account shall be debited, when appropriate, with the amounts credited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, to record regulatory liabilities imposed on the utility by the ratemaking actions of regulatory agencies. This account shall also be debited, when appropriate, with the amounts credited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, concurrent with the recovery of such amounts in rates.

This account shall be credited, when appropriate, with the amounts debited to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, to establish regulatory assets. This account shall also be credited, when appropriate, with the amounts debited to Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, concurrent with the return of such amounts to customers through rates.

This account shall include those taxes other than income taxes which relate to utility operating income This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the various classes of taxes relating to Utility Operating Income (by department), Utility Plant Leased to Others and Other Utility Operating Income.

This account shall include those taxes other than income taxes which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and federal income taxes which relate to utility operating income. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of tax effects (both positive and negative) relating to Utility Operating Income (by department), Utility Plant Leased to Others and Other Utility Operating Income.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and federal income taxes (both positive and negative), which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those local, state and federal income taxes (both positive and negative), which relate to Extraordinary Items.

This account shall include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes which relate to Utility Operating Income (by department).

This account shall include the amounts of those deferrals of taxes and allocations of deferred taxes which relate to other income and deductions.

This account shall include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, which relate to Utility Operating Income (by department).

This account shall include the amounts of those allocations of deferred taxes and deferrals of taxes, credit, which relate to Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments related to property used in Utility Operations (by department).

This account shall include the amount of those investment tax credit adjustments related to property used in Nonutility Operations.

A. This account shall include, as approved by the Commission, amounts relating to gains from the disposition of future use utility plant including amounts which were previously recorded in and transferred from account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. Income taxes relating to gains recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

B. The utility shall record in this account gains resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to utility plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instruction 24.

A. This account shall include, as approved by the Commission, amounts relating to losses from the disposition of future use utility plant including amounts which were previously recorded in and transferred from account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and account 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, under the provisions of paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. Income taxes relating to losses recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.1, Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income.

B. The utility shall record in this account losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations related to utility plant in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instruction 24.

This account shall be charged for accretion expense on the liabilities associated with asset retirement obligations included in account 230, Asset retirement obligations, related to gas utility plant.

A. These accounts shall include, respectively, revenues from gas property constituting a distinct operating unit or system leased by the utility to others, and which property is properly includible in account 104, Gas Plant Leased to Others, and the expenses attributable to such property.

B. The detail of expenses shall be kept or supported so as to show separately the following:

A. This account shall include the revenues received and expenses incurred in connection with the operations of utility plant, the book cost of which is included in account 118, Other Utility Plant.

B. The expenses shall include every element of cost incurred in such operations, including depreciation, rents, and insurance.

A. These accounts shall include, respectively, all revenues derived from the sale of merchandise and jobbing or contract work, including any profit or commission accruing to the utility on jobbing work performed by it as agent under contracts whereby it does jobbing work for another for a stipulated profit or commission, and all expenses incurred in such activities. Interest related income from installment sales shall be recorded in Account 419, Interest and Dividend Income.

B. Records in support of these accounts shall be so kept as to permit ready summarization of revenues, costs and expenses by such major items as are feasible.

A. These accounts shall include revenues and expenses applicable to operations which are nonutility in character but nevertheless constitute a distinct operating activity of the enterprise as a whole, such as the operation of an ice department where applicable statutes do not define such operation as a utility, or the operation of a servicing organization for furnishing supervision, management, engineering, and similar services to others.

B. The expenses shall include all elements of costs incurred in such operations, and the accounts shall be maintained so as to permit ready summarization as follows:

A. This account shall include all rent revenues and related expenses of land, buildings, or other property included in account 121, Nonutility Property, which is not used in operations covered by accounts 417 or 417.1.

B. The expenses shall include all elements of costs incurred in the ownership and rental of property and the accounts shall be maintained so as to permit ready summarization as follows:

This account shall include the utility's equity in the earnings or losses of subsidiary companies for the year.

A. This account shall include interest revenues on securities, loans, notes, advances, special deposits, tax refunds and all other interest-bearing assets, and dividends on stocks of other companies, whether the securities on which the interest and dividends are received are carried as investments or included in sinking or other special fund accounts.

B. This account may include the pro rata amount necessary to extinguish (during the interval between the date of acquisition and the date of maturity) the difference between the cost to the utility and the face value of interest-bearing securities. Amounts thus credited or charged shall be concurrently included in the accounts in which the securities are carried.

C. Where significant in amount expenses, excluding operating taxes and income taxes, applicable to security investments and to interest and dividend revenues thereon shall be charged hereto.

This account shall include concurrent credits for allowance for other funds used during construction, not to exceed amounts computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in Gas Plant Instruction 3(17).

This account shall be credited as follows with investment tax credit amounts not passed on to customers:

(a) By amounts equal to debits to accounts 411.4, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Utility Operations, and 411.5, Investment Tax Credit Adjustments, Nonutility Operations, for investment tax credits used in calculating income taxes for the year when the company's accounting provides for nondeferral of all or a portion of such credits; and,

(b) By amounts equal to debits to account 255, Accumulated Deferred Investment Tax Credits, for proportionate amounts of tax credit deferrals allocated over the average useful life of the property to which the tax credits relate, or such lesser period of time as may be adopted and consistently used by the company.

This account shall include all revenue and expense items except taxes properly includible in the income account and not provided for elsewhere. Related taxes shall be recorded in account 408.2, Taxes Other Than Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, or account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions, as appropriate.

This account shall be credited with the gain on the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer of utility or other property to another. Amounts relating to gains on land and land rights held for future use recorded in accounts 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, will be accounted for as prescribed in paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. (See gas plant instructions 5F, 7E, and 10E.) Income taxes on gains recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall be charged with the loss on the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer of utility or other property to another. Amounts relating to losses on land and land rights held for future use recorded in accounts 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use and 105.1, Production Properties Held for Future Use, will be accounted for as prescribed in paragraphs B, C, and D thereof. (See gas plant instructions 5F, 7E, and 10E.) The reduction in income taxes relating to losses recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.2, Income Taxes, Other Income and Deductions.

This account shall include amortization charges not includible in other accounts which are properly deductible in determining the income of the utility before interest charges. Charges includible herein, if significant in amount, must be in accordance with an orderly and systematic amortization program.

This account shall include all payments or donations for charitable, social or community welfare purposes.

This account shall include all payments for life insurance of officers and employees where company is beneficiary (net premiums less increase in cash surrender value of policies).

This account shall include payments by the company for penalties or fines for violation of any regulatory statutes by the company or its officials.

This account shall include expenditures for the purpose of influencing public opinion with respect to the election or appointment of public officials, referenda, legislation, or ordinances (either with respect to the possible adoption of new referenda, legislation or ordinances or repeal or modification of existing referenda, legislation or ordinances) or approval, modification, or revocation of franchises; or for the purpose of influencing the decisions of public officials, but shall not include such expenditures which are directly related to appearances before regulatory or other governmental bodies in connection with the reporting utility's existing or proposed operations.

This account shall include other miscellaneous expenses which are nonoperating in nature, but which are properly deductible before determining total income before interest charges.

A. This account shall include the amount of interest on outstanding long-term debt issued or assumed by the utility, the liability for which is included in account 221, Bonds, or account 224, Other Long-Term Debt.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the interest accruals on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of unamortized debt discount and expense on outstanding long-term debt. Amounts charged to this account shall be credited concurrently to accounts 181, Unamortized Debt Expense, and 226, Unamortized Discount on Long-Term Debt-Debit.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the debt discount and expense on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of the losses on reacquisition of debt. Amounts charged to this account shall be credited concurrently to account 189, Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the loss amortized applicable to each class and series of long-term debt reacquired. See General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall include the amortization of unamortized net premium on outstanding long-term debt. Amounts credited to this account shall be charged concurrently to account 225, Unamortized Premium on Long-Term Debt.

B. This account shall be so kept or supported as to show the premium on each class and series of long-term debt.

A. This account shall include the amortization of the gains realized from reacquisition of debt. Amounts credited to this account shall be charged concurrently to account 257, Unamortized Gain on Reacquired Debt.

B. This account shall be maintained so as to allow ready identification of the gains amortized applicable to each class and series of long-term debt reacquired. See General Instruction 17.

A. This account shall include interest accrued on amounts included in account 223, Advances from Associated Companies, and on all other obligations to associated companies.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept as to show to whom the interest is to be paid, the period covered by the accrual, the rate of interest and the principal amount of the advances or other obligations on which the interest is accrued.

This account shall include all interest charges not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include concurrent credits for allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, not to exceed amounts computed in accordance with the formula prescribed in Gas Plant Instruction 3(17).

This account shall be credited with gains of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence, which would significantly distort the current year's income computed before Extraordinary Items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.3, Income Taxes, Extraordinary Items. (See General Instruction 7.)

This account shall be debited with losses of unusual nature and infrequent occurrence, which would significantly distort the current year's income computed before Extraordinary Items, if reported other than as extraordinary items. Income tax relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 409.3, Income Taxes, Extraordinary Items. (See General Instruction 7.)

This account shall include the net credit or debit transferred from income for the year.

This account shall include appropriations of retained earnings.

A. This account shall include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding preferred or prior lien capital stock issued by the utility.

B. Dividends shall be segregated for each class and series of preferred stock as to those payable in cash, stock and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment shall be described with sufficient detail to identify it.

A. This account shall include amounts declared payable out of retained earnings as dividends on actually outstanding common capital stock issued by the utility.

B. Dividends shall be segregated for each class of common stock as to those payable in cash, stock and other forms. If not payable in cash, the medium of payment shall be described with sufficient detail to identify it.

A. This account shall, with prior Commission approval, include significant nonrecurring transactions accounted for as prior period adjustments, as follows:

(1) Correction of an error in the financial statements of a prior year.

(2) Adjustments that result from realization of income tax benefits of pre-acquisition operating loss carryforwards of purchased subsidiaries.

B. Adjustments, charges, or credits due to losses on reacquisition, resale or retirement of the company's own capital stock shall be included in this account. (See account 210, Gain on Resale or Cancellation of Reacquired Capital Stock, for the treatment of gains.)

A. This account shall include the net billing for gas supplied for residential or domestic purposes.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of gas sold and the revenues received under each rate schedule shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the net billing for gas supplied to commercial and industrial customers.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of gas sold and revenue received under each rate schedule shall be readily available.

C. Records shall be maintained so as to show separately the revenues from commercial and industrial customers, as follows:

A. This account shall include the net billing for gas supplied to municipalities or divisions or agencies of Federal or State Governments, under special contracts or agreements or service classifications, applicable only to public authorities, for general governmental and institutional purposes, except any revenues under rate schedules the revenues from which are includible in account 481 or 483, and except any revenues from gas used for purposes such as powerplant fuel for publicly owned electric systems, manufacturing processes of arsenals, etc., and other major uses of gas which appropriately may be classified in account 481, Commercial and Industrial Sales.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of gas sold and the revenue received from each customer and from each major special contract shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the net billing for gas supplied to other gas utilities or to public authorities for resale purposes.

B. Records shall be maintained so that there shall be readily available the revenues for each customer under each revenue schedule and the billing determinants, as applicable, i.e., volume of gas (actual and billing), contract demand, maximum actual demand, billing demand, and Btu adjustment factor.

A. This account shall include amounts charged by the gas department at tariff or other specified rates for gas supplied by it to other utility departments.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity of gas supplied each other department and the charge made therefor shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include, for informational purposes only, the amount recorded for gas supplied by the production division when the price is not determined by a cost-of-service rate proceeding.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quality of gas transferred shall be readily available.

This account shall include the amount of discounts forfeited or additional charges imposed because of the failure of customers to pay gas bills on or before a specified date.

This account shall include revenues from all miscellaneous services and charges billed to customers which are not specifically provided for in other accounts.

This account includes revenues from transporting gas for other companies through the gathering facilities of the utility.

This account includes revenues from transporting gas for other companies through the transmission facilities of the utility.

This account includes revenues from transporting gas for other companies through the distribution facilities of the utility.

This account includes revenues from storing gas for other companies.

A. This account shall include revenues from sales of gasoline, butane, propane, and other products extracted from natural gas, net of allowances, adjustments, and discounts, including sales of similar products purchased for resale.

B. Records shall be maintained so that the quantity, sales price, and revenues for each type of product sold to each purchaser shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include revenues from royalties and permits, or other bases of settlement, for permission granted others to remove products from natural gas of the utility.

B. The records supporting this account must be maintained so that full information concerning determination of the revenues will be readily available concerning each processor of gas of the utility, including as applicable (a) The Dth of gas delivered to such other party for processing, (b) the Dth of gas received back from the processor, (c) the field, general production area , or other source of the gas processed, (d) Dth of gas used for processing fuel, etc., which is chargeable to the utility, (e) total gallons of each product recovered by the processor and the utility's share thereof, (f) the revenues accruing to the utility, and (g) the basis of determination of the revenues accruing to the utility. Such records shall be maintained even though no revenues are derived from the processor.

This account shall include revenues from natural gas gasoline produced direct from gas wells or recovered from drips or obtained in connection with purification or dehydration processes, and revenues from oil obtained from wells which produce oil and gas, the investment in which is carried in accounts 330, Producing Gas Wells-Well Construction, and 331, Producing Gas Wells-Well Equipment.

A. This account shall include rents received for the use by others of land, buildings, and other property devoted to gas operations by the utility.

B. When property owned by the utility is operated jointly with others under a definite arrangement for sharing the actual expenses among the parties to the arrangement, any amount received by the utility for interest or return or in reimbursement of taxes or depreciation on the property shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include credits for rental charges made against other departments of the utility. In the case of property operated under a definite arrangement to allocate actual costs among the departments using the property, any allowance to the gas department for interest or return and depreciation and taxes shall be credited to this account.

This account includes revenues derived from gas operations not includible in any of the foregoing accounts.

A. This account shall be charged with provisions for the estimated pretax effects on net income of the portions of amounts being collected subject to refund which are estimated to be required to be refunded. Such provisions shall be credited to Account 229, Accumulated Provision for Rate Refunds.

B. This account shall also be charged with amounts refunded when such amounts had not been previously accrued.

C. Income tax effects relating to the amounts recorded in this account shall be recorded in account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, or account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, as appropriate.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of steam production. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor used in boiler rooms and elsewhere about the premises engaged in the production of steam or assignable to the production of steam.

A. This account shall include the cost of coal, oil, gas, or other fuel used in the production of steam, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses. It shall also include the net cost of, or the net amount realized from, the disposal of ashes.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity and cost of each type of fuel used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of materials used and expenses incurred in the production of steam, not includible in the foregoing accounts.

A. This account shall include such portion of the cost of producing steam as is charged to other gas operating expense accounts, or to others or to a coordinate department under a joint facility arrangement.

B. The records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish readily an explanation of the bases of the credits to this account and the amounts charged to (1) other gas accounts, (2) other utility departments, and (3) outside parties under a joint facility arrangement. The records shall show, likewise, the amounts of steam production operation and steam production maintenance expenses, respectively, chargeable to each of the foregoing.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of steam production facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance accounts. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures and improvements used in steam production operations, the book cost of which is includible in account 305, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall indicate the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment used in steam production the book cost of which is includible in account 306, Boiler Plant Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment used in steam production operations, the book cost of which is includible in account 314, Coal, Coke, and Ash Handling Equipment, or account 320, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses occurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of manufactured gas stations. Direct supervision of specific activities such as steam production and power operations, coke oven operations, water gas generation, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

A. This account shall include the cost of steam used in manufactured gas production. This includes the cost of steam transferred from the gas department's own supply and charges for steam transferred from others or from coordinate departments under joint facility arrangements. (See account 704, Steam Transferred-Credit.)

B. This account shall be so kept as to show separately for each source of steam the point of delivery, the quantity, the charges therefor, and the bases of such charges.

This account shall include the cost of electricity or other power, except steam, used in manufactured gas operation. This includes the cost of power purchased, the operation cost of electricity or other power such as compressed air produced by the gas department and charges from others or from coordinate departments for power produced under joint facility arrangements.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in the operation of coke ovens for the production of coal gas, exclusive of the cost of fuel for the coke ovens and coal carbonized.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in making producer gas exclusive of the cost of fuel for producer gas.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in the operation of water gas sets exclusive of the cost of fuel and oil for water gas production.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in the operation of equipment for the production of oil gas exclusive of cost of the oil.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in the operation of equipment used for vaporizing petroleum derivatives such as propane, butane or gasoline exclusive of cost of the materials vaporized or used for fuel in the vaporizing process.

This account shall include the cost of labor used and expenses incurred in operating equipment used for the production of gas by processes not provided for in the foregoing accounts.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas, other than coke oven gas or producer gas, or other fuel used under coke ovens for making coal gas. Concurrent credits shall be made to account 734, Duplicate Charges-Credit, for gas made by the utility and so used, or account 812, Gas Used for Other Utility Operations-Credit, for other gas used under coke ovens.

B. Records shall be kept to show the quantity and cost of each type of fuel used and fuel handling expenses.

A. This account shall include the cost of fuel used in making producer gas including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses. It shall also include the net cost of, or the net amount realized from, the disposal of ashes.

B. Records shall be kept to show the quantity and the cost of each type of fuel used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of fuel used in making water gas, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses. It shall also include the net cost of, or net proceeds from, the disposal of ashes.

B. Records shall be kept to show the quantity and cost of each type of fuel used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of fuel for the manufacture of gas by the oil gas process.

This account shall include the cost of fuel for vaporization of liquefied petroleum gas and for the compression of air in liquefied petroleum gas process.

This account shall include the cost of fuel for the manufacture of gas by processes not provided for in the above fuel accounts.

A. This account shall include the cost of coal used in coke ovens for making coal gas, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be kept to show the type, quantity, and cost of coal used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of oil used in carbureting water gas, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be kept to show the type, quantity, and cost of oil used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of oil used in making oil gas, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be kept to show the type, quantity, and cost of oil used. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of liquefied petroleum gas, such as propane, butane, or gasoline, vaporized for mixing with other gases or for sale unmixed, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be kept to show the type, quantity, and cost of liquefied petroleum gas. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of raw materials used in the production of manufactured gas by any process not provided for by the foregoing accounts including the production of coal gas by use of retorts, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be kept to show the type, quantity, and cost of each raw material used, comparable to the accounting specified in the foregoing accounts for specified types of gas processes. Respective amount of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred including uncollectible accounts in obtaining, handling, preparing, refining, and marketing residuals produced in manufactured gas production processes.

B. Divisions of this account shall be maintained for each of the principal types of expenses chargeable hereto and for each residual or by-product carried in account 731, Residuals Produced-Credit.

A. This account shall be credited and the appropriate subdivision of account 153, Residuals and Extracted Products, debited monthly with the estimated value of residuals and other by-products obtained in connection with the production of manufactured gas, whether intended for sale or for use in operations.

B. If the net amount realized from the sale of residuals is greater or less than the amount at which they were originally credited hereto, an adjusting entry shall be made crediting or debiting this account and charging or crediting the appropriate subdivision of account 153, Residuals and Extracted Products, with the difference.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating purification equipment and apparatus used for conditioning manufactured gas.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating equipment for mixing natural and manufactured gas, or vaporized liquefied petroleum gases for delivery to the distribution system.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which are made to manufactured gas production operating expenses for manufactured gas not entering common system supply, steam or electricity used for which there is no direct money outlay.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in manufacturing gas production operations not includible in any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include rents for property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with manufactured gas production operations. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of manufactured gas production facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance accounts. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 305, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment for the production of manufactured gas, the book cost of which is included in accounts 306 to 320, inclusive, except such equipment as is used for the production of steam the maintenance of which is includible in accounts 707, Maintenance of Boiler Plant Equipment, and 708, Maintenance of Other Steam Production Plant. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of production and gathering systems. Direct supervision of specific activities such as turning on and shutting off wells, operating measuring and regulating stations, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

B. For Nonmajor companies, this account shall include the cost of supervision and labor in the operation of gas wells, lines, compressors and other equipment of the natural gas production and gathering system including miscellaneous labor such as care of grounds, building service, and general clerical and stenographic work at field offices.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the preparation and maintenance of production maps and records.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating producing gas wells.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating field lines.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, except fuel, and expenses incurred in operating field compressor stations.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas, coal, oil, or other fuel, or electricity, used for the operation of field compressor stations, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity of each type of fuel consumed or electricity used at each compressor station, and the cost of such fuel or power. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating field measuring and regulating stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating equipment used for purifying, dehydrating, and conditioning of natural gas.

A. This account shall include royalties paid for natural gas produced by the utility from wells on land owned by others.

B. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish the name of the parties to each contract involving royalties, the terms of each contract, the location of the property involved, the method of determining the royalties, and the amounts payable.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in producing and gathering natural gas and not includible in any of the foregoing accounts.

This account shall include rents for property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with the production and gathering of natural gas, other than rentals on land and land rights held for the supply of natural gas. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of the production and gathering facilities as a whole. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures and improvements, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 326, Gas Well Structures, 327, Field Compressor Station Structures, 328, Field Measuring and Regulating Station Structures, and 329, Other Structures. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of gas wells and equipment includible in accounts 330. Producing Gas Wells-Well Construction, and 331, Producing Gas Wells-Well Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of field lines the book cost of which is includible in account 332, Field Lines. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the maintenance of field compressor station equipment includible in account 333, Field Compressor Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of field measuring and regulating station equipment includible in account 334, Field Measuring and Regulating Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of purification equipment includible in account 336, Purification Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of drilling and cleaning equipment includible in account 335, Drilling and Cleaning Equipment, except such costs of maintaining drilling tools or other equipment which are assignable to the cost of drilling wells. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in maintenance of other production and gathering equipment includible in account 337, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of products extraction and refining operations, except supervision of marketing and selling operations which shall be charged to account 779, Marketing Expenses. Direct supervision of specific extraction and refining activities shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor used in the operation of facilities for the extraction of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products from natural gas and for refining such products.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas lost or absorbed in the process of extraction of salable products from natural gas, exclusive of gas used as fuel, the cost of which shall be included in account 773, Fuel.

B. Concurrent credits offsetting charges to this account shall be made to account 811, Gas Used for Products Extraction-Credit.

A. This account shall include the cost of natural gas or other fuel used in extracting gasoline, butane, propane and other salable products from natural gas, including fuel used for generation of electricity or making steam.

B. Concurrent Credits offsetting charges to this account shall be made to account 811, Gas Used for Products Extraction-Credit.

This account shall include the cost of electricity purchased for operation of facilities used in the extraction of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products from natural gas.

This account shall include the cost of materials used in extracting salable products from natural gas and blending and refining such products.

This account shall include supplies used and expenses incurred in the operation of facilities for recovering salable products from natural gas and blending and refining such products, not provided for elsewhere.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas shrinkage, gas consumed for fuel, royalties, and other expenses in connection with the processing of gas of the utility by others for extraction of salable products, for which the related revenues are includible in account 491, Revenues from Natural Gas Processed by Others.

B. Concurrent credits offsetting charges to this account for the difference between gas delivered to others for processing and gas returned after processing, such as shrinkage in the processing operations and gas of the utility used for fuel, shall be made to account 811, Gas Used for Products Extraction of Credit.

C. Records supporting this account shall be so maintained that full information will be readily available concerning gas shrinkage, gas used for fuel, royalties, and other expenses assumed or paid by the utility with regard to each processor of gas of the utility. (See paragraph B of account 491, Revenues from Natural Gas Processed by Others.)

This account shall include royalties paid by the utility to others for the right to extract salable products from natural gas.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the marketing of products extracted from natural gas and of similar products purchased for resale.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that summaries of the various types of expenses shall be readily available.

A. This account shall include the cost of gasoline, butane, propane, or other salable products purchased from others for resale.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that the kind, quantity, and cost of products purchased from each vendor are readily available.

This account shall include credits for increases, and debits for decreases in the inventories of salable products extracted from natural gas or purchased for resale. The net debit or credit in this account shall equal the difference between the inventory at the beginning of the accounting year and the end of the accounting month.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which are made of operating expenses or other accounts of the gas department for gasoline or other extracted products which are used from stocks recovered in the natural gas extraction process or purchased for resale, and for such products used for blending and refining processes, the contra debit for which is account 775, Materials.

This account shall include all rents for the property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with the extraction of salable products from natural gas, exclusive of tank car rentals and other similar rentals includible in account 779, Marketing Expenses. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of facilities used in the extraction and refining of salable products from natural gas. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 341, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 342, Extraction and Refining Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 343, Pipe Lines. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 344, Extracted Products Storage Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 345, Compressor Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 346, Gas Measuring and Regulating Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 347, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

A. This account shall be charged with the amount of rents paid periodically on natural gas lands acquired by lease before October 8, 1969, in order to hold natural gas land and land rights for the purpose of obtaining a supply of gas in the future.

B. Include also in this account, the cost of obtaining natural gas leases for a period of 1 year or less when such leases were acquired before October 8, 1969.

C. Records supporting this account shall be so kept that the utility can furnish complete details of the charges made for each natural gas leasehold. (See note to gas plant instruction 7G.)

This account shall include the net cost of drilling wells on natural gas leases acquired before October 8, 1969, which prove to be nonproductive.

A. This account shall be charged with amounts credited to account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, to cover the probable loss on abandonment of natural gas leases acquired before October 8, 1969, included in account 105, Gas Plant Held for Future Use, which has never been productive. (See account 182.1.)

B. When natural gas leaseholds which were acquired before October 8, 1969, and which have never been productive are abandoned, and the amounts provided in account 111, Accumulated Provision for Amortization and Depletion of Gas Utility Plant, are not sufficient to cover the cost thereof, the deficiency shall be charged to this account unless otherwise authorized or directed by the Commission. (See account 182.1.)

This account shall be charged with the cost of abandoned projects involving natural gas leases acquired before October 8, 1969, on which preliminary expenditures were made for the purpose of determining the feasibility of acquiring acreage to provide a future supply of natural gas (see account 183.1, Preliminary Natural Gas Survey and Investigation Charges).

A. This account shall include the cost at well head of natural gas purchased from producers in gas fields or production areas where only the utility's facilities are used in bringing the gas from the well head into the utility's natural gas system.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and well head the quantity of gas, basis of charges, and amount paid for the gas.

A. This account shall include, for informational purposes only, the amount recorded for gas supplied by the production division when the price is not determined by a cost-of-service rate proceeding.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there will be readily available for each well-head, the quantity of gas, the basis of intracompany charges, and the amount of intracompany charges for gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, at point of receipt by the utility, of natural gas purchased in gas fields or production areas at points along gathering lines, and at points along the utility's transmission lines within field or production areas, exclusive of purchases at outlets of gasoline plants includible in account 802, where facilities of the vendor or others are used in bringing the gas from the well head to the point of entry into the utility's natural gas system.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and each point of receipt, the quantity of gas, basis of charges, and amount paid for the gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, at point of receipt by the utility, of natural gas purchased at the outlet side of vendor's natural gas products extraction plants.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and for each products extraction plant, the quantity of gas, basis of the charges, and the amount paid for the gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, at point of receipt by the utility, of natural gas purchased at points along the utility's transmission lines not within gas fields or production areas, excluding purchases at the outlets of products extraction plants includible in account 802.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and each point of receipt, the quantity of gas, basis of charges, and the amount paid for the gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, at point of receipt by the utility, of natural gas purchased which is received at the entrance to the distribution system of the utility.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and each point of receipt, the quantity of gas, basis of the charges, and the amount paid for the gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, including transportation, at point of receipt by the utility, of liquefied natural gas purchased for the purpose of vaporization and injection into the utility's transmission or distribution system for resale.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and point of receipt, the quantity of liquefied natural gas purchased, basis of charges, the amount paid for the liquefied gas, and transportation charges incurred up to the point of receipt of the liquefied gas.

A. This account shall include the cost, at point of receipt by the utility, of manufactured gas, refinery gas, or any gas other than natural gas, or other than any mixed gas in which the natural gas is an important proportion of the mixture.

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each vendor and each point of receipt, the kind and quantity of gas, Btu content, basis of the charges, and the amount paid for the gas.

C. Utilities recognizing revenue for shipper-supplied gas must include the current market price of such gas in this account. Current market price is the delivered spot price of gas in the utility's supply area, as published in a recognized industry journal. The publication used must be the same one identified in the pipeline's tariff for use in its cash-out provision, if it has one. If it has no cash-out provision, the utility must use one publication consistently. Contra entries to those recorded herein must be made to the appropriate transportation revenue account (Account 489.1 through Account 489.4). Records are to be maintained and readily available that include the name of shipper, quantity of gas, and the publication and price used to value shipper-supplied gas.

D. The value of gas received from shippers under tariff allowances that is not consumed in operations nor returnable to customers through rate tracking mechanisms must be credited to Account 495, Other Gas Revenues and charged to this account. Utilities must simultaneously charge Accounts 117.3 or 117.4 as appropriate, with contra credits to Account 808.2, Gas Delivered to Storage-Credit. Records are to be maintained and readily available that include the name of shipper, quantity of gas, and the publication and price used to value shipper-supplied gas.

A. This account shall be debited or credited with decreases or increases in purchased gas costs related to Commission approved purchased gas adjustment clauses when such costs are not included in the utility's rate schedules on file with the Commission.

B. This account shall be debited or credited with amounts amortized from Account 191, Unrecovered Purchased Gas Costs.

This account includes debits or credits for the cost of gas in unbalanced transactions where gas is received from or delivered to another party in exchange, load balancing, or no-notice transportation transactions. The costs are to be determined consistent with the accounting method adopted by the utility for its system gas. If the utility has adopted the inventory method of accounting, the amounts to be recorded in Account 806 must be based on the historical cost of the gas. If the utility has adopted the fixed asset method of accounting, the amounts to be recorded in Account 806 must be based on the current market price of gas at the time gas is tendered for transportation. (See the Special Instructions to Accounts 117.1, 117.2, and 117.3 for a description of the inventory and fixed asset methods and the definition of the current market price of gas.) Contra entries to those in this account are to be made to account 174, Miscellaneous Current and Accrued Assets, for gas receivable and to account 242, Miscellaneous Current and Accrued Liabilities, for gas deliverable under such transactions. Such entries must be reversed and appropriate contra entries made to this account when gas is received or delivered in satisfaction of the amounts receivable or deliverable.

A. This account shall include expenses incurred directly in connection with the purchase of gas for resale.

B. The utility shall not include as purchased gas expense, segregated or apportioned expenses of operating and maintaining gathering system plant whether such plant is devoted solely or partially to purchases of gas, except that the utility shall include the cost of turning on and off purchase gas wells and operating measuring stations devoted exclusively to measuring purchased gas.

C. In general, it is intended that this account include only the expenses directly related to purchased gas, including the expenses of computing volumes of gas purchased, and special items directly related to gas purchases which are not includible in other accounts.

D. This account shall be subdivided as follows:

A. This account shall include debits for the cost of gas withdrawn from storage during the year. Contra credits for entries to this account shall be made to accounts 117.1 through 117.4, or account 164.2, Liquefied Natural Gas Stored, as appropriate. (See the Special Instructions to accounts 117.1, 117.2, and 117.3).

B. Withdrawal of gas from storage shall not be netted against deliveries to storage. (See account 808.2.)

A. This account shall include credits for the cost of gas delivered to storage during the year. Contra debits for entries to this account shall be made to accounts 117.1 through 117.4, or account 164.2, Liquefied Natural Gas Stored, as appropriate. (See the Special Instructions to accounts 117.1, 117.2, and 117.3).

A. This account shall include debits for the cost of liquefied gas withdrawn during the year. Contra credits for entries to this account shall be made to account 164.3, Liquefied Natural Gas Held for Processing.

B. Withdrawals of liquefied natural gas held for processing shall not be netted against deliveries. (See account 809.2).

A. This account shall include credits for the cost of gas delivered for processing during the year. Contra debits for entries to this account shall be made to account 164.3, Liquefied Natural Gas Held for Processing.

B. Deliveries of natural gas for processing shall not be netted against withdrawals from processing. (See account 809.1).

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which are made to operating expenses for gas consumed for compressor station fuel from the common system gas supply.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which are made to products extraction expenses for gas shrinkage and gas used for fuel in products extraction operations of the utility and for similar uses of gas of the utility by others processing gas of the utility for extraction of salable products.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which are made to operating expenses or other accounts of the gas department for gas consumed from the common system supply for operating and utility purposes other than uses for which credits are includible in any of the foregoing accounts. (See account 484, Interdepartmental Sales, for gas supplied to departments other than the gas utility department.)

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with gas supply functions not provided for in any of the above accounts, including, research and development expenses.

B. Include in separate subaccounts: (1) losses on settlements of imbalance receivables and payables (See Account 174 and 242) and losses on replacement of encroachment volumes (See the Special Instructions to Accounts 117.1, 117.2 and 117.3); (2) revaluations of storage encroachments; and (3) system gas losses not associated with storage. Appropriate records must be maintained and readily available that include the amount of losses and associated volumes in Dth.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of underground storage operations. Direct supervision of specific activities such as turning on and shutting off storage wells, compressor station operations, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the preparation and maintenance of storage maps and land records.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating storage gas wells.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating underground storage lines.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating underground storage compressor stations.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas, coal, oil, or other fuel, or electricity, used for the operation of underground storage compressor stations, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity of each type of fuel consumed or electricity used at each compressor station, and the cost of such fuel or power. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating underground storage measuring and regulating stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating equipment used for purifying, dehydrating, and conditioning of natural gas in connection with underground storage operations.

This account shall include expenses of investigation, exploration, and development of underground storage projects under consideration which prove not feasible. There also shall be included in this account the net cost of drilling nonoperative wells within an existing storage project. (For Major companies see account 183.2, Other Preliminary Survey and Investigation Charges.)

This account shall include the amounts of inventory adjustments representing the cost of gas lost or unaccounted for in underground storage operations due to cumulative inaccuracies of gas measurements or other causes. (See the Special Instructions to Accounts 117.1, 117.2 and 117.3). If however, any adjustment is substantial, the utility may, with approval of the Commission, amortize the amount of the adjustment to this account over future operating periods.

This account shall include the cost of labor, material used and expenses incurred in operating underground storage plant, and other underground storage operating expenses, not includible in any of the foregoing accounts, including research, development, and demonstration expenses.

A. This account shall include royalties, rents, and other payments includible in operating expenses for gas wells and gas land acreage located within and comprising underground storage projects of the utility. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

B. The records supporting this account shall be so maintained that information will be readily available for each storage project, of the parties to each contract, basis of the charges, and location of wells to which the royalties or rents of each contract relate.

This account shall include rents for property of others used in connection with the storage of gas underground, other than rents and royalties paid with respect to storage wells and gas lands utilized for the holding of gas in underground storage. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of underground storage facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 351, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of storage wells, the book cost of which is included in account 352, Wells, and the maintenance of reservoirs, the book cost of which is included in account 352.2, Reservoirs. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of underground storage lines, the book cost of which is includible in account 353, Lines. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 354, Compressor Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 355, Measuring and Regulating Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of purification equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 356, Purification Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 357, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of other storage facilities. Direct supervision of specific activities such as operation of gas holders shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating storage holders and other storage equipment.

This account shall include rents for property of others used or operated in connection with other storage operations. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

A. This account shall include the cost of natural gas or other fuel used in the operation of other storage plant.

B. Concurrent credits offsetting charges to this account for natural gas used for fuel shall be made to account 812, Gas Used for Other Utility Operations-Credit.

This account shall include the cost of electricity consumed for operation of facilities used in the operation of other storage plant.

This account shall include the amounts of inventory adjustments representing the cost of gas lost or unaccounted for in other storage operations due to shrinkage or other causes.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of other storage facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 361, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of gas holders, the book cost of which is includible in account 362, Gas Holders. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of purification equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 363, Purification Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of liquefaction equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 363.1, Liquefaction Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of vaporizing equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 363.2, Vaporizing Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of compressor equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 363.3, Compressor Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of measuring and regulating equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 363.4, Measuring and Regulating Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment the book cost of which is includible in account 363.5, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of operations of liquefied natural gas facilities. Direct supervision of specific activities shall be charged to the appropriate operations accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating liquefied natural gas processing equipment.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating natural gas liquefaction equipment.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating LNG transportation equipment.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating, measuring and regulating stations in connection with liquefied natural gas operations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred, including fuel and power, in operating compressor stations in connection with liquefied natural gas operations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with the operation of liquefied natural gas communications facilities, such as radio, telephone, microwave and other communication systems, including payments to others for communications services.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in dispatching and controlling the supply and flow of liquefied gas and vaporized gas prior to introduction of such vaporized gas into the utility's transmission or distribution system.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas or other fuel used for the operation of liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing facilities, except compressor station fuel.

B. Concurrent credits offsetting charges to this account for natural gas used for fuel shall be made to account 812, Gas Used for Other Utility Operations-Credit.

This account shall include the cost of purchased power used in operation of liquefied natural gas processing facilities, except compressor station power.

This account shall include rents for property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with liquefied natural gas processing operations. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include demurrage charges incurred by the utility relative to LNG shipments received or processed by the utility.

This account shall include wharfage receipts received or receivable from LNG shippers or other parties relative to LNG shipments received or processed by the utility.

A. This account shall include amounts paid to others for the processing of liquefied or vaporized gas of the utility.

B. Records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each agreement, the name of the other party, Dth of gas delivered to the other party for processing and the Dth, of gas received back by the utility after processing, points of delivery to and receipt of gas from the other party, amount and basis of charges for the processing service.

This account shall include the amounts of inventory adjustments representing the cost of gas lost or unaccounted for in liquefied natural gas operations due to cumulative inaccuracies of gas measurements or other causes. (See paragraph E of account 164.3, Liquefied Natural Gas Held for Processing.) If, however, any adjustment is substantial, the utility may, with approval of the Commission, amortize the amount of the adjustment to this account over future operating periods.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in operating liquefied natural gas plant not includible elsewhere.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of liquefied natural gas terminaling and processing facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance accounts. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures and improvements, the book cost of which is included in account 364.2, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of LNG terminal processing equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.3, LNG Processing Terminal Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of transportation equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.4, LNG Transportation Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of measuring and regulating equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.5, Measuring and Regulating Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of compressor station equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.6, Compressor Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of communication equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.7, Communication Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is included in account 364.8, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of the operation of transmission facilities. Direct supervision of specific activities such as operation of transmission lines, compressor stations, etc. shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in dispatching and controlling the supply and flow of gas through the system.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with the operation of transmission communications facilities, such as radio and telephone communications systems, including payments to others for communications services for transmission and load dispatching operations.

B. Credits shall be made to this account and charges made to production, distribution and other gas utility functions and to other utility departments for equitable portions of transmission communications expenses attributable to use of transmission communications facilities other than in connection with gas transmission and load dispatching operation.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred (other than fuel and power) in operating transmission compressor stations.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas used for the operation of transmission compressor stations.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the Dth of gas consumed at each compressor station, and the cost of such gas.

A. This account shall include the cost of coal, oil, and other fuel, or electricity, used for the operation of transmission compressor stations, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity of each type of fuel consumed or electricity used at each compressor station, and the cost of such fuel or power. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating transmission mains.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating transmission measuring and regulating stations.

A. This account shall include amounts paid to others for the transmission and compression of gas of the utility.

B. Records supporting this account shall be so maintained that there shall be readily available for each agreement, name of other party, Dth of gas delivered to the other party for transmission or compression and the Dth of gas received back by the utility after transmission or compression, points of delivery to and receipt of gas from other party, amount and basis of charges for the transmission or compression service.

This account shall include the cost of labor, material used and expenses incurred in operating transmission system equipment and other transmission system expenses not includible in any of the foregoing accounts, including research, development, and demonstration expenses.

This account shall include rents for property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with the operation of the transmission system. Include herein rentals paid for regulator sites, railroad crossings, rights-of-way, annual payments to governmental bodies and others for use of public or private lands, and reservations for rights-of-way. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of transmission system facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance accounts. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 366, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of mains, the book cost of which is includible in account 367, Mains. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 368, Compressor Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 369, Measuring and Regulating Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 370, Communication Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 371, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of distribution system operations. Direct supervision of specific activities such as load dispatching, mains operation, removing and resetting meters, etc., shall be charged to the appropriate account. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in dispatching and controlling the supply and flow of gas through the distribution system.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating distribution compressor stations.

A. This account shall include the cost of gas, coal, oil, or other fuel, or electricity, used for the operation of distribution compressor stations, including applicable amounts of fuel stock expenses.

B. Records shall be maintained to show the quantity of each type of fuel consumed or electricity used at each compressor station, and the cost of such fuel or power. Respective amounts of fuel stock and fuel stock expenses shall be readily available.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating distribution system mains and services.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating general distribution measuring and regulating stations.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating large measuring and regulating stations located on local distribution systems to serve specific commercial and industrial customers.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in operating measuring and regulating stations used to measure and regulate the receipt of gas at entry points to distribution systems.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with removing, resetting, changing, testing, and servicing customer meters and house regulators.

A. This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in work on customer premises other than expenses includible in account 878, Meter and House Regulator Expenses, including the cost of servicing customer-owned appliances when the cost of such work is borne by the utility.

B. Damage to customer equipment by employees of the utility whether incidental to the work or the result of negligence, shall be charged to the job on which the employee was engaged at the time of damage.

This account shall include the cost of distribution maps and records, distribution office expenses, and the cost of labor and materials used and expenses incurred in distribution systems operations not provided for elsewhere, including the expenses of operating street lighting systems and research, development, and demonstration expenses.

This account shall include rents for property of others used, occupied or operated in connection with the operation of the distribution system. Include herein rentals paid for regulator sites, railroad crossings, rights-of-way, annual payments to governmental bodies and others for use of public or private lands, and reservations for rights-of-way. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general supervision and direction of maintenance of distribution system facilities. Direct field supervision of specific jobs shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance accounts. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of structures, the book cost of which is includible in account 375, Structures and Improvements. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of distribution mains, the book cost of which is includible in account 376, Mains. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 377, Compressor Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 378, Measuring and Regulating Station Equipment-General. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 385, Industrial Measuring and Regulating Station Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of equipment, the book cost of which is includible in account 379, Measuring and Regulating Station Equipment-City Gate Check Stations. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of services, the book cost of which is includible in account 380, Services. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of meters and house regulators, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 381, Meters, and 383, House Regulators. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of street lighting equipment and all other distribution system equipment not provided for elsewhere, the book cost of which is includible in accounts 386, Other Property on Customers' Premises, and 387, Other Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer accounting and collecting activities. Direct supervision of a specific activity shall be charged to account 902, Meter Reading Expenses, or account 903, Customer Records and Collection Expenses, as appropriate. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in reading customer meters, and determining consumption when performed by employees engaged in reading meters.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in work on customer applications, contracts, orders, credit investigations, billing and accounting, collections and complaints.

This account shall be charged with amounts sufficient to provide for losses from uncollectible utility revenues. Concurrent credits shall be made to account 144, Accumulated Provision for Uncollectible Accounts-Credit. Losses from uncollectible accounts shall be charged to account 144.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred not provided for in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of customer service activities, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the utility's service. Direct supervision of a specific activity within customer service and informational expense classification shall be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in providing instructions or assistance to customers, the object of which is to promote safe, efficient and economical use of the utility's service.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in activities which primarily convey information as to what the utility urges or suggests customers should do in utilizing gas service to protect health and safety, to encourage environmental protection, to utilize their gas equipment safely and economically, or to conserve natural gas.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with customer service and informational activities which are not includible in other customer information expense accounts.

This account shall include the cost of labor and expenses incurred in the general direction and supervision of sales activities, except merchandising. Direct supervision of a specific activity, such as demonstrating, selling, or advertising shall be charged to the account wherein the costs of such activity are included. (See operating expense instruction 1.)

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in promotional, demonstrating, and selling activities, except by merchandising, the object of which is to promote or retain the use of utility services by present and prospective customers.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in advertising designed to promote or retain the use of utility service, except advertising the sale of merchandise by the utility.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in connection with sales activities, except merchandising, which are not includible in other sales expense accounts.

A. This account shall include the compensation (salaries, bonuses, and other consideration for services, but not including directors' fees) of officers, executives, and other employees of the utility properly chargeable to utility operations and not chargeable directly to a particular operating function.

B. This account may be subdivided in accordance with a classification appropriate to the departmental or other functional organization of the utility.

A. This account shall include office supplies and expenses incurred in connection with the general administration of the utility's operations which are assignable to specific administrative or general departments and are not specifically provided for in other accounts. This includes the expenses of the various administrative and general departments, the salaries and wages of which are includible in account 920.

B. This account may be subdivided in accordance with a classification appropriate to the departmental or other functional organization of the utility.

This account shall be credited with administrative expenses recorded in accounts 920 and 921 which are transferred to construction costs or to nonutility accounts. (See gas plant instruction 4.)

A. This account shall include the fees and expenses of professional consultants and others for general services which are not applicable to a particular operating function or to other accounts. It shall include also the pay and expenses of persons engaged for a special or temporary administrative or general purpose in circumstances where the person so engaged is not considered as an employee of the utility.

B. This account shall be so maintained as to permit ready summarization according to the nature of service and the person furnishing the same.

A. This account shall include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the utility against losses and damages to owned or leased property used in its utility operations. It shall include also the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in property insurance activities.

B. Recoveries from insurance companies or others for property damages shall be credited to the account charged with the cost of the damage. If the damaged property has been retired, the credit shall be to the appropriate account for accumulated provision for depreciation.

C. Records shall be kept so as to show the amount of coverage for each class of insurance carried, the property covered, and the applicable premiums. Any dividends distributed by mutual insurance companies shall be credited to the accounts to which the insurance premiums were charged.

A. This account shall include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the utility against injuries and damages claims of employees or others, losses of such character not covered by insurance, and expenses incurred in settlement of injuries and damages claims. It shall also include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in injuries and damages activities.

B. Reimbursements from insurance companies or others for expenses charged hereto on account of injuries and damages and insurance dividends or refunds shall be credited to this account.

A. This account shall include pensions paid to or on behalf of retired employees, or accruals to provide for pensions, or payments for the purchase of annuities for this purpose, when the utility has definitely, by contract, committed itself to a pension plan under which the pension funds are irrevocably devoted to pension purposes, and payments for employee accident, sickness, hospital, and death benefits, or insurance therefor. Include, also, expenses incurred in medical, educational or recreational activities for the benefit of employees, and administrative expenses in connection with employee pensions and benefits.

B. The utility shall maintain a complete record of accruals or payments for pensions and be prepared to furnish full information to the Commission of the plan under which it has created or proposes to create a pension fund and a copy of the declaration of trust or resolution under which the pension plan is established.

C. There shall be credited to this account the portion of pensions and benefits expenses which is applicable to nonutility operations or which is charged to construction unless such amounts are distributed directly to the accounts involved and are not included herein in the first instance.

D. Records in support of this account shall be so kept that the total pensions expense, the total benefits expense, the administrative expenses included herein, and the amounts of pensions and benefits expenses transferred to construction or other accounts will be readily available.

A. This account shall include payments to municipal or other governmental authorities, and the cost of materials, supplies and services furnished such authorities without reimbursement in compliance with franchise, ordinance, or similar requirements; provided, however, that the utility may charge to this account at regular tariff rates, instead of cost, utility service furnished without charge under provisions of franchises.

B. When no direct outlay is involved, concurrent credit for such charges shall be made to account 929, Duplicate Charges-Cr.

C. The account shall be maintained so as to readily reflect the amounts of cash outlays, utility service supplied without charge, and other items furnished without charge.

A. This account shall include all expenses (except pay of regular employees only incidentally engaged in such work) properly includible in utility operating expenses, incurred by the utility in connection with formal cases before regulatory commissions, or other regulatory bodies, or cases in which such a body is a party, including payments made to a regulatory commission for fees assessed against the utility for pay and expenses of such commission, its officers, agents, and employees.

B. Amounts of regulatory commission expenses which by approval or direction of the Commission are to be spread over future periods shall be charged to account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, and amortized by charges to this account.

C. The utility shall be prepared to show the cost of each formal case.

This account shall include concurrent credits for charges which may be made to operating expenses or to other accounts for the use of utility service from its own supply. Include, also, offsetting credits for any other charges made to operating expenses for which there is no direct money outlay.

This account shall include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in advertising and related activities, the cost of which by their content and purpose are not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include rents properly includible in utility operating expenses for the property of others used, occupied, or operated in connection with the customer accounts, customer service and informational, sales, and general and administrative functions of the utility. (See operating expense instruction 3.)

A. This account shall include the cost assignable to customer accounts, sales and administrative and general functions of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in the maintenance of property, the book cost of which is includible in account 390, Structures and Improvements, account 391, Office Furniture and Equipment, account 397, Communication Equipment, and account 398, Miscellaneous Equipment. (See operating expense instruction 2.)

B. Maintenance expenses on office furniture and equipment used elsewhere than in general, commercial and sales offices shall be charged to the following accounts:
