
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter G - Approved Forms, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 250 - FORMS
##### ยง 250.16 Format of compliance plan for transportation services and affiliate transactions.
###### Log of data used to allocate capacity.

(c)(1) An interstate pipeline that relies upon contract information or other data to allocate capacity must maintain a log showing, for each transportation contract (both for marketing affiliates and non-affiliates) on its system: the shipper's name (including a designation whether the shipper is a local distribution company, an interstate pipeline, an intrastate pipeline, an end-user, a producer, a marketer, or a pipeline sales operating unit); the shipper's affiliation with the pipeline; the contract number; and the applicable dates or other information used to allocate capacity under its tariff. The log data relating to each contract must be maintained as long as the contract is used to allocate capacity and for three years after the contract data is no longer used for capacity allocation.

(2) The current log of allocation data for marketing affiliates must be posted on the pipeline's Internet Web site, operated pursuant to ยง 284.12 of this chapter. The posting must conform with the requirements of ยง 284.12 of this chapter and the pipeline's tariff requirements relating to Internet Web sites. Access to the information must be provided using the same protocols and procedures used for the pipeline's Internet Web site.

(3) The log of affiliate and non-affiliate information must be provided to the Commission upon request and must be made available to the public under Subpart D of Part 385 of this chapter. When requested by the Commission, the information must be provided, within a reasonable time, according to the specifications and format contained in Form No. 592, which can be obtained at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, Washington, DC 20426.
