
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter G - Approved Forms, Natural Gas Act
#### PART 260 - STATEMENTS AND REPORTS (SCHEDULES)
##### ยง 260.8 System flow diagrams: Format No. FERC 567.

(a) Each Major natural gas pipeline company, having a system delivery capacity in excess of 100,000 Mcf per day (measured at 14.73 p.s.i.a. and 60 &#xB0;F), shall file with the Commission by June 1 of each year five (5) copies of a diagram or diagrams reflecting operating conditions on its main transmission system during the previous twelve months ended December 31. For purposes of system peak deliveries, the heating season overlapping the year's end shall be used. Facilities shall be those installed and in operation on December 31 of the reporting year. All volumes shall be reported on a uniform stated pressure and temperature base. Receipt and delivery point information required in various exhibits must be labeled with a location point name and code in accordance with the location name and code adopted by the pipeline in accordance with ยง 284.13(f) of this chapter.

(b) The diagram or diagrams shall include the following items of information:

(1) Nominal diameter (inches) of each pipeline.

(2) Miles of pipeline (to nearest 0.1 mile) between points of intake, delivery, river crossings, storage fields, crossovers, compressor stations and connections with other pipeline companies.

(3) Direction of flow in the pipelines. If direction of flow can be reversed at compressor stations, so indicate.

(4) Maximum permissible operating pressure for each pipeline at discharge side of each compressor station or other critical point, determined by the Department of Transportation's safety standards.

(5) Total horsepower of compressor engines installed at each compressor station.

(6) Designed suction pressure for each compressor station, p.s.i.g.

(7) Designed discharge pressure for each station, p.s.i.g.

(8) Maximum volume, Mcf per day that can be compressed at each compressor station under conditions of suction and discharge set forth in paragraphs (b) (6) and (7) of this section. If direction of flow affects these factors provide the information for each direction of flow.

(9) The fuel requirement at each compressor station under conditions described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(10) Pressure in the pipeline at points of emergency interconnection with other pipeline companies which can normally be expected to exist, and the volume which could be delivered or received at such emergency interconnection points at such pressures. Give the name of the interconnecting company.

(11) For each storage field, connected to the system and operated by the respondent pipeline company, the maximum dependable daily and seasonal withdrawal volumes available under normal conditions of operation.

(12) Volumes delivered: (i) The average daily volumes delivered at each takeoff point, (ii) the volumes delivered at each takeoff point on the day of maximum coincidental delivery, and (iii) the maximum daily volumes (noncoincidental) delivered to each customer under rates subject to FERC jurisdiction.

(13) The average daily volume received at each intake point to the transmission pipeline system.

(14) The volume received into the transmission pipeline system at each intake point on the day of maximum coincidental delivery.

(15) The information required by paragraphs (b)(12), (13) and (14), of this section may be furnished in tabular form, or by reference to FERC Form No. 2, providing, that the information is suitably keyed to the diagram by appropriate identifying symbol or number.
