
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Procedures Governing Determinations for Tax Credit Purposes
#### PART 270 - DETERMINATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Filings With Jurisdictional Agencies
###### ยง 270.305 Determination of tight formation areas.
####### Notice to the Commission.

(c)Any jurisdictional agency making a determination that a formation, or portion thereof, qualifies as a tight formation will provide timely notice, in writing, of such determination, to the Commission. Such notice shall include the following to substantiate the jurisdictional agency's findings:

(1) Geological and geographical descriptions of the formation, or portion thereof, which is determined to qualify as a tight formation; and

(2) Geological and engineering data to support the determination, including (but not limited to):

(i) A map of the area for which a tight formation determination is being sought that clearly locates and identifies all data wells and all dry holes that penetrate the subject formation and all wells that are currently producing from the subject formation.

(ii) A well-by-well table of each in situ permeability value (in millidarcies), pre-stimulation stabilized production rate (in Mcf per day), and depth to the top of the formation (in feet) for each well, and the arithmetic mean of each set of data.

(iii) For any data that the jurisdictional agency excludes from the above calculations, a statement explaining why the data was excluded.

(iv) The underlying well test, well logs, cross-sections, or other data sources, and all calculations performed to derive the formation tops, permeability values, and pre-stimulation stabilized production rates shown in the well-by-well table.

(v) Any other information that the jurisdictional agency deems relevant and/or that the jurisdictional agency relied upon in making its determination.
