
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Procedures Governing Determinations for Tax Credit Purposes
#### PART 270 - DETERMINATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Identification of State and Federal Jurisdictional Agencies
###### ยง 270.401 Jurisdictional agency.
####### Definition.

(a)With respect to a well the surface location of which is on lands within the boundaries of a State (including Federal lands and offshore State lands), "jurisdictional agency" means the Federal or State agency having regulatory jurisdiction with respect to the production of natural gas.

(b) The jurisdictional agency for wells located on Federal lands in each state are:

(1) Alabama-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(2)(i) Alaska, Anchorage Field Office-Assistant District Manager for Mineral Resources, Bureau of Land Management, 6881 Abbott Loop Road, Anchorage, AK 99507.

(ii) Alaska, Northern Field Office-Assistant District Manager for Mineral Resources, Bureau of Land Management, 1150 University Avenue, Fairbanks, AK 99709.

(3)(i) Arizona, except for the Navaho and Hopi Indian Reservations-Deputy State Director for Mineral Resources, Bureau of Land Management, PO Box 555, Phoenix, AZ 85000-0555.

(ii) Arizona, Navaho and Hopi Indian Reservations-District Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Albuquerque District Office (NGPA), 435 Montano Road, NE., Albuquerque, NM 87107.

(4) Arkansas-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(5) California, except Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1 (Elk Hills) and No. 2 (Buena Vista)-Chief, Branch of Fluid and Solid Minerals, Bureau of Land Management, Division of Mineral Resources (C-920), 2800 Cottage Way, Suite W-1834, Sacramento, CA 95825.

(6) Colorado-Deputy State Director for Resource Services, Bureau of Land Management, Colorado State Office (CO-930), 2850 Youngfield Street, Lakewood, CO 80215.

(7) Florida and Georgia-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(8) Idaho-Deputy State Director Resources and Science, Bureau of Land Management, Idaho State Office (931), 1387 Vinnell Way, Boise, ID 83709.

(9) Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(10) Kansas-Deputy State Director for Resource Services, Bureau of Land Management, Colorado State Office (CO-931), 2850 Youngfield Street, Lakewood, CO 80215.

(11) Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, and Missouri-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(12) Montana-Chief, Branch of Fluid and Solid Minerals, Bureau of Land Management, Division of Mineral Resources, PO Box 36800, Billings, MT 59107.

(13) Nebraska-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(14) Nevada-State Director, Bureau of Land Management, Nevada State Office (NV-92000), PO Box 12000, Reno, NV 89520.

(15)(i) New Mexico, Northern New Mexico-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Albuquerque Field Office (NGPA), 435 Montano Road, NE., Albuquerque, NM 87107.

(ii) New Mexico, Southern New Mexico-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Roswell Field Office (NGPA), 2909 West Second Street, Roswell, NM 88201.

(16) New York and North Carolina-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(17) North Dakota-Chief, Branch of Fluid Minerals, Bureau of Land Management, Division of Mineral Resources, PO Box 36800, Billings, MT 59107.

(18) Ohio-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(19)(i) Oklahoma, except the Osage Reservation-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Tulsa Field Office (NGPA), 7906 East 33rd Street, Suite 101, Tulsa, OK 74145.

(ii) Oklahoma, the Osage Reservation only-Superintendent, Osage Indian Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, U. S. Department of the Interior, Pawhuska, OK 74056.

(20) Oregon-Deputy State Director, Planning, Use, and Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Oregon State Office, PO Box 2965, Portland, OR 97208.

(21) Pennsylvania and South Carolina-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(22) South Dakota-Chief, Branch of Fluid Minerals, Bureau of Land Management, Division of Mineral Resources, PO Box 36800 Billings, MT 59107.

(23) Tennessee-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(24) (i) Texas, east of the 100th Meridian-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Tulsa Field Office (NGPA), 7906 East 33rd Street, Suite 101, Tulsa, OK 74145.

(ii) Texas, west of the 100th Meridian-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Roswell Field Office (NGPA), 2909 West Second Street, Roswell, NM 88201.

(25) (i) Utah, except for the Navajo and Hopi Indian Reservations-Deputy State Director for Natural Resources, Bureau of Land Management, Utah State Office (U-930), 324 South State Street, Suite 301, Salt Lake City, UT 84111.

(ii) Utah, the Navajo and Hopi Indian Reservations only-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, Albuquerque Field Office (NGPA), 435 Montano Road, NE., Albuquerque, NM 87107.

(26) Virginia-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(27) Washington-Deputy State Director for Mineral Resources, Bureau of Land Management, Oregon State Office, PO Box 2965, Portland, OR 97208.

(28) West Virginia-Chief, Branch of Resources, Planning & Protection, Bureau of Land Management, Eastern States Office (931), 7450 Boston Boulevard, Springfield, VA 22153.

(29) (i) Wyoming, excluding Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 3 (Teapot Dome) Casper Field Office-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, 1701 East E Street, Casper, WY 82601.

(ii) Rawlins Field Office-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, PO Box 2407, Rawlins, WY 82301.

(iii) Rock Springs Field Office-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, 280 Highway 191 North, Rock Springs, WY 82901.

(iv) Worland Field Office-Field Office Manager, Bureau of Land Management, PO Box 119, Worland, WY 82401.

(c) The jurisdictional agency for wells located on Other lands in each state are:

(1) Alabama-State Oil and Gas Board, 420 Hackberry Lane, P O Box 869999, Tuscaloosa, AL 35486-9780.

(2) Alaska-Department of Natural Resources, Oil & Gas Division, 550 West 7th Avenue, Anchorage, AK 99501.

(3) Arizona-Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, 416 West Congress Street, Suite 100, Tucson, AZ 85701

(4) Arkansas-Oil & Gas Commission, PO Box 1472, El Dorado, AR 71730-1472.

(5) California-Department of Conservation, Division of Oil & Gas, 801 K Street, MS24-01, Sacramento, CA 95814.

(6) Colorado-Oil & Gas Conservation Commission, 1120 Lincoln, Suite 801, Denver, CO 80203.

(7) Florida-Administrator Oil and Gas, Bureau of Geology, Department of Natural Resources, 903 West Tennessee Street, Tallahassee, FL 32304.

(8) Georgia-Department of Natural Resources, Geologic & Water Resources Division, 19 Martin Luther King Drive, SW, Atlanta, GA 30334.

(9) Idaho-Idaho Public Utilities Commission, Statehouse Mail, Boise, ID 83720.

(10) Illinois-Department of Natural Resources, Oil & Gas Division, 524 South 2nd Street, Springfield, IL 62701.

(11) Indiana-Department of Natural Resources, Oil & Gas Division, 402 West Washington Street, Room 256 Indianapolis, IN 46204.

(12) Kansas-Kansas Corporation Commission, Finney State Office Building, 130 South Market, Room 2078, Wichita, KS 67202-3802.

(13) Kentucky-Public Service Commission, 211 Sower Blvd., PO Box 6615, Frankfort, KY 40602-0615.

(14) Louisiana-Department of Natural Resources, Office of Conservation, PO Box 94275, Baton Rouge, LA 70804.

(15) Maryland-Department of Natural Resources, Tawes State Office Building., Annapolis, MD 21404.

(16) Michigan-Department of Environmental Quality, Geological Survey Division, Hollister Building, PO Box 30473, Lansing MI 48909.

(17) Mississippi-State Oil & Gas Board, 500 Graymont Avenue, Suite E, Jackson, MS 39202.

(18) Missouri-Department of Natural Resources Geology and Survey Division, PO Box 250, 111 Fairgrounds Road, Rolla, MO 65402.

(19) Montana-Department of Natural Resources and Oil and Gas Conservation Division, 2535 St. John's Avenue, Billings, MT 59102.

(20) Nebraska-Oil & Gas Conservation Commission, Box 399, Sidney, NE 69162.

(21) Nevada-Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Mineral Resources, Capitol Complex, 201 S. Fall Street, Carson City, NV 89710.

(22) New Mexico-Department of Energy and Minerals and Natural Resources, Oil Conservation Division, 2040 S. Pacheco Street, Sante Fe, NM 87505.

(23) New York-New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, Division of Mineral Resources, Bureau of Oil and Gas Regulation, 50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12233-6500.

(24) North Carolina-Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, 512 North Salisbury Street, Raleigh, NC 27611.

(25) North Dakota-Industrial Commission, State Capitol, 600 East Boulevard Avenue, Department 405, Bismarck, ND 58505.

(26) Ohio-Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas 4383 Fountain Square Drive, Columbus, OH 43224-1362.

(27) Oklahoma--Corporation Commission, 300 Jim Thorpe Building, PO Box 52000-2000, Oklahoma City, OK 73152-2000.

(28) Oregon-Department of Geology & Mineral Industries, 800 N.E. Oregon Street, #28 Portland, OR 972332.

(29) Pennsylvania " Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, PO Box 8767, Harrisburg, PA 17105-8767.

(30) South Carolina-South Carolina Public Service Commission, PO Drawer 11649, Columbia, SC 29211.

(31) South Dakota-Oil and Gas Supervisor, Department of Environment and Natural Resources, 2050 West Main, Suite 1, Rapid City, SD 57702.

(32) Tennessee-Office of Conservation, Division of Geology, 401 Church Street, Nashville, TN 37243.

(33) Texas-Railroad Commission Oil and Gas Division, 1701 North Congress Avenue, PO Box 12967, Austin, TX 78711-2967.

(34) Utah--Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil, Gas and Mining, PO Box 145801 West North Temple, Suite 1210, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5801.

(35) Virginia-Department of Mines, Minerals & Energy, Division of Gas and Oil, PO Box 1416, Abingdon, VA 24210.

(36) Washington-Department of Natural Resources, Geology and Earth Resources Division, PO Box 47001, Olympia, WA 98504.

(37) West Virginia--Division of Environmental Protection, Office of Oil and Gas, #10 McJunkin Road, Nitro, WV 25143-2506.
