
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Procedures Governing Determinations for Tax Credit Purposes
#### PART 270 - DETERMINATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Commission Review of Jurisdictional Agency Determinations
###### ยง 270.502 Commission review of final determinations.
####### Final orders.

(g)(1) In any case in which a protest was filed with the Commission and a preliminary finding was issued, the Commission will issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding.

(2) In any case in which no protest was filed with the Commission and a preliminary finding was issued, the Commission may issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding.

(3) A final order issued under paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section will either affirm, reverse, or remand the determination of the jurisdictional agency. Such order will state the specific basis for the Commission's action. Notice of the issuance of such order will be given to the jurisdictional agency, to participants in the proceeding before the jurisdictional agency, and to participants in the proceeding before the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section and under ยง 270.503.

(4) In the event that the Commission fails to issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding, the determination of the jurisdictional agency shall become final.
