
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 281 - NATURAL GAS CURTAILMENT UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978
##### Subpart B - Permanent Curtailment Rule
###### ยง 281.213 Data Verification Committee.

(a) Each interstate pipeline shall establish a Data Verification Committee no later than August 1, 1979. It shall include, at a minimum, a representative of the interstate pipeline, Commission staff, a large and small local distribution company, and an essential agricultural user. The appropriate state and local regulatory bodies, and a representative of the United States Department of Agriculture may, at their option, be members.

(b) The Data Verification Committee shall review all calculations behind the draft tariff sheets or sections and the proposed index of entitlements. The Data Verification Committee may request, and the interstate pipeline shall immediately supply, any information requested by the Data Verification Committee.

(c) Any interested person may file a written protest concerning the index of entitlements. Such protests shall be filed with the Data Verification Committee no later than August 15 of each year.

(d) The Data Verification Committee shall review the draft tariff sheets or sections and index of entitlements and shall review the underlying data for uniformity in preparation.

(e) The Data Verification Committee shall prepare a report concerning the proposed index of requirements and the draft tariff sheets or sections for the interstate pipeline. It shall, at a minimum, specify all arithmetic errors and contain an evaluation of all protests. It may contain a proposed settlement of contested draft tariff sheets or sections. The report shall be submitted to the interstate pipeline no later than September 1 of each year.
