
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 284 - CERTAIN SALES AND TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978 AND RELATED AUTHORITIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Conditions
###### ยง 284.8 Release of firm capacity on interstate pipelines.

(a) An interstate pipeline that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B or G of this part must include in its tariff a mechanism for firm shippers to release firm capacity to the pipeline for resale by the pipeline on a firm basis under this section.

(b)(1) Firm shippers must be permitted to release their capacity, in whole or in part, on a permanent or short-term basis, without restriction on the terms or conditions of the release. A firm shipper may arrange for a replacement shipper to obtain its released capacity from the pipeline. A replacement shipper is any shipper that obtains released capacity.

(2) The rate charged the replacement shipper for a release of capacity may not exceed the applicable maximum rate, except that no rate limitation applies to the release of capacity for a period of one year or less if the release is to take effect on or before one year from the date on which the pipeline is notified of the release. Payments or other consideration exchanged between the releasing and replacement shippers in a release to an asset manager as defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section are not subject to the maximum rate.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a firm shipper that wants to release any or all of its firm capacity must notify the pipeline of the terms and conditions under which the shipper will release its capacity. The firm shipper must also notify the pipeline of any replacement shipper designated to obtain the released capacity under the terms and conditions specified by the firm shipper.

(d) The pipeline must provide notice of offers to release or to purchase capacity, the terms and conditions of such offers, and the name of any replacement shipper designated in paragraph (b) of this section, on an Internet web site, for a reasonable period.

(e) The pipeline must allocate released capacity to the person offering the highest rate and offering to meet any other terms and conditions of the release. If more than one person offers the highest rate and meets the terms and conditions of the release, the released capacity may be allocated on a basis provided in the pipeline's tariff, provided however, if the replacement shipper designated in paragraph (b) of this section offers the highest rate, the capacity must be allocated to the designated replacement shipper.

(f) Unless otherwise agreed by the pipeline, the contract of the shipper releasing capacity will remain in full force and effect, with the net proceeds from any resale to a replacement shipper credited to the releasing shipper's reservation charge.

(g) To the extent necessary, a firm shipper on an interstate pipeline that offers transportation service on a firm basis under subpart B or G of this part is granted a limited-jurisdiction blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act solely for the purpose of releasing firm capacity pursuant to this section.

(h)(1) The following releases need not comply with the bidding requirements of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section:

(i) A release of capacity to an asset manager as defined in paragraph (h)(3) of this section;

(ii) A release of capacity to a marketer participating in a state-regulated retail access program as defined in paragraph (h)(4) of this section;

(iii) A release for more than one year at the maximum tariff rate; and

(iv) A release for any period of 31 days or less.

(v) If a release is exempt from bidding under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, notice of the release must be provided on the pipeline's Internet Web site as soon as possible, but not later than the first nomination, after the release transaction commences.

(2) When a release of capacity is exempt from bidding under paragraph (h)(1)(iv) of this section, a firm shipper may not roll over, extend or in any way continue the release to the same replacement shipper using the 31 days or less bidding exemption until 28 days after the first release period has ended. The 28-day hiatus does not apply to any re-release to the same replacement shipper that is posted for bidding or that qualifies for any of the other exemptions from bidding in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(3) A release to an asset manager exempt from bidding requirements under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section is any pre-arranged release that contains a condition that the releasing shipper may call upon the replacement shipper to deliver to, or purchase from, the releasing shipper a volume of gas up to 100 percent of the daily contract demand of the released transportation or storage capacity, as provided in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (h)(3)(iii) of this paragraph.

(i) If the capacity release is for a period of one year or less, the asset manager's delivery or purchase obligation must apply on any day during a minimum period of the lesser of five months (or 155 days) or the term of the release.

(ii) If the capacity release is for a period of more than one year, the asset manager's delivery or purchase obligation must apply on any day during a minimum period of five months (or 155 days) of each twelve-month period of the release, and on five-twelfths of the days of any additional period of the release not equal to twelve months.

(iii) If the capacity release is a release of storage capacity, the asset manager's delivery or purchase obligation need only be up to 100 percent of the daily contract demand under the release for storage withdrawals or injections, as applicable.

(4) A release to a marketer participating in a state-regulated retail access program exempt from bidding requirements under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section is any prearranged capacity release that will be utilized by the replacement shipper to provide the gas supply requirement of retail consumers pursuant to a retail access program approved by the state agency with jurisdiction over the local distribution company that provides delivery service to such retail consumers.
