
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 284 - CERTAIN SALES AND TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978 AND RELATED AUTHORITIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Conditions
###### ยง 284.12 Standards for pipeline business operations and communications.
####### Business practices and electronic communication requirements.

(b)An interstate pipeline that transports gas under subparts B or G of this part must comply with the following requirements. The regulations in this paragraph adopt the abbreviations and definitions contained in the North American Energy Standards Board Wholesale Gas Quadrant standards incorporated by reference in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(1) Nominations.

(i) Intra-day nominations.

(A) A pipeline must give scheduling priority to an intra-day nomination submitted by a firm shipper over nominated and scheduled volumes for interruptible shippers. When an interruptible shipper's scheduled volumes are to be reduced as a result of an intra-day nomination by a firm shipper, the interruptible shipper must be provided with advance notice of such reduction and must be notified whether penalties will apply on the day its volumes are reduced.

(B) An intra-day nomination submitted on the day prior to gas flow will take effect at the start of the gas day at 9 a.m. CCT.
