
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 284 - CERTAIN SALES AND TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978 AND RELATED AUTHORITIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Conditions
###### ยง 284.12 Standards for pipeline business operations and communications.
####### Communication protocols.

(3)(i)(A) All electronic information provided and electronic transactions conducted by a pipeline must be provided on the public Internet. A pipeline must provide, upon request, private network connections using internet tools, internet directory services, and internet communication protocols and must provide these networks with non-discriminatory access to all electronic information. A pipeline may charge a reasonable fee to recover the costs of providing such an interconnection.

(B) A pipeline must implement this requirement no later than June 1, 2000.

(ii) A pipeline must comply with the following requirements for documents constituting public information posted on the pipeline web site:

(A) The documents must be accessible to the public over the public Internet using commercially available web browsers, without imposition of a password or other access requirement;

(B) Users must be able to search an entire document online for selected words, and must be able to copy selected portions of the documents; and

(C) Documents on the web site should be directly downloadable without the need for users to first view the documents on the web site.

(iii) If a pipeline uses a numeric or other designation to represent information, an electronic cross-reference table between the numeric or other designation and the information represented must be available to users, at a cost not to exceed reasonable shipping and handling.

(iv) A pipeline must provide the same content for all information regardless of the electronic format in which it is provided.

(v) A pipeline must maintain, for a period of three years, all information displayed and transactions conducted electronically under this section and be able to recover and regenerate all such electronic information and documents. The pipeline must make this archived information available in electronic form for a reasonable fee.

(vi) A pipeline must post notices of operational flow orders, critical periods, and other critical notices on its Internet web site and must notify affected parties of such notices in either of the following ways to be chosen by the affected party: Internet E-Mail or direct notification to the party's Internet URL address.
