
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 284 - CERTAIN SALES AND TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978 AND RELATED AUTHORITIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Conditions
###### ยง 284.13 Reporting requirements for interstate pipelines.
####### Index of customers.

(c)(1) On the first business day of each calendar quarter, an interstate pipeline must file with the Commission an index of all its firm transportation and storage customers under contract as of the first day of the calendar quarter that complies with the requirements set forth by the Commission. The Commission will establish the requirements and format for such filing. The index of customers must also posted on the pipeline's Internet web, in accordance with standards adopted in ยง 284.12 of this part, and made available from the Internet web site in a downloadable format complying with the specifications established by the Commission. The information posted on the pipeline's Internet web site must be made available until the next quarterly index is posted.

(2) For each shipper receiving firm transportation or storage service, the index must include the following information:

(i) The full legal name, and identification number, of the shipper;

(ii) The applicable rate schedule number under which the service is being provided;

(iii) The contract number;

(iv) The effective and expiration dates of the contract;

(v) For transportation service, the maximum daily contract quantity (specify unit of measurement), and for storage service, the maximum storage quantity (specify unit of measurement);

(vi) The receipt and delivery points and the zones or segments covered by the contract, including the location name and code adopted by the pipeline in conformance with paragraph (f) of this section for each point, zone or segment;

(vii) An indication as to whether the contract includes negotiated rates;

(viii) The name of any agent or asset manager managing a shipper's transportation service; and

(ix) Any affiliate relationship between the pipeline and a shipper or between the pipeline and a shipper's asset manager or agent.

(3) The requirements of this section do not apply to contracts which relate solely to the release of capacity under ยง 284.8, unless the release is permanent.

(4) Pipelines that are not required to comply with the index of customers posting and filing requirements of this section must comply with the index of customer requirements applicable to transportation and sales under Part 157 as set forth under ยง 154.111(b) and (c) of this chapter.

(5) The requirements for the electronic index can be obtained from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Division of Information Services, Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, Washington, DC 20426.
