
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Other Regulations Under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and Related Authorities
#### PART 284 - CERTAIN SALES AND TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT OF 1978 AND RELATED AUTHORITIES
##### Subpart I - Emergency Natural Gas Sale, Transportation, and Exchange Transactions
###### ยง 284.264 Terms and conditions.
####### General conditions.

(a)(1) A participant must make every reasonable attempt to minimize use of emergency natural gas transactions.

(2) Before deliveries of emergency natural gas commence, a responsible official of the recipient must provide any participants in the emergency natural gas transaction sufficient information to enable the participants to form a good faith belief that an emergency exists or is imminent.

(3) No participant may engage in an emergency natural gas transaction if its participation will adversely affect service to its existing customers.

(4) A participant may not sell emergency natural gas if, during the term of the sale, it is also purchasing emergency natural gas under this subpart, except when natural gas is being sold to relieve an emergency on another, separate segment of the participant's system.

(5) An interstate pipeline, acting in an emergency gas transaction as a broker or agent on behalf of another participant or any other person, may not receive compensation for such brokerage or agency service.

(6) A recipient of emergency natural gas that directly benefits from the service must:

(i) Provide line loss and the fuel volumes required to transport the emergency natural gas; and

(ii) Pay for the facilities required to be constructed to conduct the emergency natural gas transaction.
