
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### § 4.32 Acceptance for filing or rejection; information to be made available to the public; requests for additional studies.
####### http://www.ferc.gov.

(2) Each applicant for exemption must submit the application to the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site atAn applicant must serve one copy of the application on the Director of the Commission's Regional Office for the appropriate region and on each resource agency consulted pursuant to § 4.38. For each application filed following October 23, 2003, maps and drawings must conform to the requirements of § 4.39.

(3)(i) An applicant must make information regarding its proposed project reasonably available to the public for inspection and reproduction, from the date on which the applicant files its application for a license or exemption until the licensing or exemption proceeding for the project is terminated by the Commission. This information includes a copy of the complete application for license or exemption, together with all exhibits, appendices and any amendments, and any comments, pleadings, supplementary or additional information, or correspondence filed by the applicant with the Commission in connection with the application.

(ii) An applicant must delete from any information made available to the public under this section, specific site or property locations the disclosure of which would create a risk of harm, theft, or destruction of archeological or Native American cultural resources or to the site at which the sources are located, or would violate any federal law, including the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of l979, 16 U.S.C. 470w-3, and the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470hh.

(4)(i) An applicant must make available the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in a form that is readily accessible, reviewable, and reproducible, at the same time as the information is filed with the Commission or required by regulation to be made available.

(ii) An applicant must make the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section available to the public for inspection:

(A) At its principal place of business or at any other location that is more accessible to the public, provided that all the information is available in at least one location;

(B) During regular business hours; and

(C) In a form that is readily accessible, reviewable and reproducible.

(iii) The applicant must provide a copy of the complete application (as amended) to a public library or other convenient public office located in each county in which the proposed project is located.

(iv) An applicant must make requested copies of the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section available either:

(A) At its principal place of business or at any other location that is more accessible to the public, after obtaining reimbursement for reasonable costs of reproduction; or

(B) Through the mail, after obtaining reimbursement for postage fees and reasonable costs of reproduction.

(5) Anyone may file a petition with the Commission requesting access to the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section if it believes that an applicant is not making the information reasonably available for public inspection or reproduction. The petition must describe in detail the basis for the petitioner's belief.

(6) An applicant must publish notice twice of the filing of its application, no later than 14 days after the filing date, in a daily or weekly newspaper of general circulation in each county in which the project is located. The notice must disclose the filing date of the application and briefly summarize it, including the applicant's name and address, the type of facility applied for, its proposed location, the places where the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is available for inspection and reproduction, and the date by which any requests for additional scientific studies are due under paragraph (b)(7) of this section, and must state that the Commission will publish subsequent notices soliciting public participation if the application is found acceptable for filing. The applicant must promptly provide the Commission with proof of the publications of this notice.

(7) If any resource agency, Indian tribe, or person believes that an additional scientific study should be conducted in order to form an adequate factual basis for a complete analysis of the application on its merits, the resource agency, Indian tribe, or person must file a request for the study with the Commission not later than 60 days after the application is filed and serve a copy of the request on the applicant. The Commission will issue public notice of the tendering for filing of each application for hydropower license or exemption; each such applicant must submit a draft of this notice to the Commission with its application. For any such additional study request, the requester must describe the recommended study and the basis for the request in detail, including who should conduct and participate in the study, its methodology and objectives, whether the recommended study methods are generally accepted in the Scientific community, how the study and information sought will be useful in furthering the resource goals that are affected by the proposed facilities, and approximately how long the study will take to complete, and must explain why the study objectives cannot be achieved using the data already available. In addition, in the case of a study request by a resource agency or Indian tribe that had failed to request the study during the pre-filing consultation process under § 4.38 of this part or § 16.8 of this chapter, the agency or Indian tribe must explain why this request was not made during the pre-filing consultation process and show good cause why its request for the study should be considered by the Commission.

(8) An applicant may file a response to any such study request within 30 days of its filing, serving a copy of the response on the requester.

(9) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) to (b)(8) of this section only apply to an application for license or exemption filed on or after May 20, 1991. Paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section do not apply to applications subject to the requirements of § 16.7 of this chapter.

(c)(1) Every applicant for a license or exemption for a project with a capacity of 80 megawatts or less must include in its application copies of the statements made under § 4.38(b)(2)(vi).

(2) If an applicant reverses a statement of intent not to seek PURPA benefits:

(i) Prior to the Commission issuing a license or exemption, the reversal of intent will be treated as an amendment of the application under § 4.35 and the applicant must:

(A) Repeat the pre-filing consultation process under § 4.38; and

(B) Satisfy all the requirements in § 292.208 of this chapter; or

(ii) After the Commission issues a license or exemption for the project, the applicant is prohibited from obtaining PURPA benefits.

(d) When any application is found to conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section, the Commission or its delegate will:

(1) Notify the applicant that the application has been accepted for filing, specifying the project number assigned and the date upon which the application was accepted for filing, and, for a license or exemption application, direct the filing of the originals (microfilm) of required maps and drawings;

(2)(i) For an application for a preliminary permit or a license, issue public notice of the application as required in the Federal Power Act;

(ii) For an application for exemption from licensing, publish notice once in a daily or weekly newspaper of general circulation in each county in which the project is or will be located; and

(3) If the project affects lands of the United States, notify the appropriate Federal office of the application and the specific lands affected, pursuant to section 24 of the Federal Power Act.

(4) For an application for a license seeking benefits under section 210 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended, for a project that would be located at a new dam or diversion, serve the public notice issued for the application under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section to interested agencies at the time the applicant is notified that the application is accepted for filing.

(e) In order for an application to conform adequately to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section and of § 4.38, an application must be completed fully. No blanks should be left in the application. No material or information required in the application should be omitted. If an applicant believes that its application conforms adequately without containing certain required material or information, it must explain in detail why the material or information is not being submitted and what steps were taken by the applicant to provide the material or information. If the Commission finds that an application does not adequately conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section and of § 4.38, the Commission or its designee will consider the application either deficient or patently deficient.
