
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### ยง 4.32 Acceptance for filing or rejection; information to be made available to the public; requests for additional studies.
####### Deficient applications.,http://www.ferc.gov.

(1)(i) An application that in the judgment of the Director of the Office of Energy Projects does not conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section and of ยง 4.38, may be considered deficient. An applicant having a deficient application will be afforded additional time to correct deficiencies, not to exceed 45 days from the date of notification in the case of an application for a preliminary permit or exemption from licensing or 90 days from the date of notification in the case of an application for license. Notification will be by letter or, in the case of minor deficiencies, by telephone. Any notification will specify the deficiencies to be corrected. Deficiencies must be corrected by submitting the specified materials or information to the Secretary of the Commission within the time specified in the notification of deficiency in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at

(ii) Upon submission of a conforming application, action will be taken in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) If the revised application is found not to conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section and of ยง 4.38, or if the revisions are not timely submitted, the revised application will be rejected. Procedures for rejected applications are specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii).
