
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
#### PART 292 - REGULATIONS UNDER SECTIONS 201 AND 210 OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY REGULATORY POLICIES ACT OF 1978 WITH REGARD TO SMALL POWER PRODUCTION AND COGENERATION
##### Subpart B - Qualifying Cogeneration and Small Power Production Facilities
###### ยง 292.207 Procedures for obtaining qualifying status.
####### Commission action.

(3)Self-certification and self-recertification are effective upon filing. If no protests to a self-certification or self-recertification are timely filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, no further action by the Commission is required for a self-certification or self-recertification to be effective. If protests to a self-certification or self-recertification are timely filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, a self-certification or self-recertification will remain effective until the Commission issues an order revoking QF certification. The Commission will act on the protest within 90 days from the date the protest is filed; provided that, if the Commission requests more information from the protester, the entity seeking qualification or recertification, or both, the time for the Commission to act will be extended to 60 days from the filing of a complete answer to the information request. In addition to any extension resulting from a request for information, the Commission also may toll the 90-day period for one additional 60-day period if so required to rule on a protest. Authority to toll the 90-day period for this purpose is delegated to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. Absent Commission action before the expiration of the tolling period, a protest will be deemed denied, and the self-certification or self-recertification will remain effective.
