
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### ยง 4.32 Acceptance for filing or rejection; information to be made available to the public; requests for additional studies.
####### accepted for filing

(f) Any application will be consideredas of the application filing date if the Secretary receives all of the information and documents necessary to conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section and of ยง 4.38 within the time prescribed by the Commission or its delegate under paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) An applicant may be required to submit any additional information or documents that the Commission or its designee considers relevant for an informed decision on the application. The information or documents must take the form, and must be submitted within the time, that the Commission or its designee prescribes. An applicant may also be required to provide within a specified time additional copies of the complete application, or any of the additional information or documents that are filed, to the Commission or to any person, agency, or other entity that the Commission or its designee specifies. If an applicant fails to provide timely additional information, documents, or copies of submitted materials as required, the Commission or its designee may dismiss the application, hold it in abeyance, or take other appropriate action under this chapter or the Federal Power Act.

(h) A prospective applicant, prior to submitting its application for filing, may seek advice from the Commission staff regarding the sufficiency of the application. For this purpose, five copies of the draft application should be submitted to the Director of the Division of Hydropower Licensing. An applicant or prospective applicant may confer with the Commission staff at any time regarding deficiencies or other matters related to its application. All conferences are subject to the requirements of ยง 385.2201 of this chapter governing ex parte communications. The opinions or advice of the staff will not bind the Commission or any person delegated authority to act on its behalf.

(i) Intervention in any preliminary permit proceeding will not constitute intervention in any subsequent licensing or exemption proceeding.

(j) Any application, the effectiveness of which is conditioned upon the future occurrence of any event or circumstance, will be rejected.
