
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### ยง 4.34 Hearings on applications; consultation on terms and conditions; motions to intervene; alternative procedures.
####### Notice and comment hearings.

(b)All comments (including mandatory and recommended terms and conditions or prescriptions) on an application for exemption or license must be filed with the Commission no later than 60 days after issuance by the Commission of public notice declaring that the application is ready for environmental analysis. All reply comments must be filed within 105 days of that notice. All comments and reply comments and all other filings described in this section must be served on all persons listed in the service list prepared by the Commission, in accordance with the requirements of ยง 385.2010 of this chapter. If a party or interceder (as defined in ยง 385.2201 of this Chapter) submits any written material to the Commission relating to the merits of an issue that may affect the responsibilities of a particular resource agency, the party or interceder must also serve a copy of the submission on this resource agency. The Commission may allow for longer comment or reply comment periods if appropriate. A commenter or reply commenter may obtain an extension of time from the Commission only upon a showing of good cause or extraordinary circumstances in accordance with ยง 385.2008 of this chapter. Late-filed fish and wildlife recommendations will not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (e), (f)(1)(ii), and (f)(3) of this section, and late-filed terms and conditions or prescriptions will not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(iv), (f)(1)(v), and (f)(2) of this section. Late-filed fish and wildlife recommendations, terms and conditions, or prescriptions will be considered by the Commission under section 10(a) of the Federal Power Act if such consideration would not delay or disrupt the proceeding.
