
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 300 - CONFIRMATION AND APPROVAL OF THE RATES OF FEDERAL POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS
##### Subpart B - Filing Requirements
###### ยง 300.11 Technical support for the rate schedule.
####### Statement C-Capitalized investments or costs.

(3)(i) Statement C must account for all capitalized investments to be repaid from power revenues.

(ii) The statement shall include a listing, by year, of the following:

(A) All initial investments and additions to plant, including interest during construction, that produced revenue during the historic period or are expected to produce revenue during the rate test period;

(B) Capitalized deferred expenses; and

(C) Replacements made during the historic period and replacements projected to be made during the balance of the repayment period.

(iii) For each such investment, the statement shall specify:

(A) Whether the investment is an initial investment, an addition, a replacement, or a capitalized deferred annual expense;

(B) The date the investment was made;

(C) The year in which repayment is due to be completed;

(D) Whether the investment was financed through the issuance of revenue bonds, the appropriate interest rate, and the terms and conditions for such bonds; and

(E) The authority or administrative procedure used for the adoption of such interest rate.

(iv) If available, the amount repaid on each investment to date must be stated, except that if repayment on individual investments is not recorded, the amount repaid to date on each group of investments having common interest rates should be stated.

(v) For each year, the sum of unpaid individual investments or the unpaid portion of interest groups shown above must equal the unamortized investment shown in the power repayment study for that year.

(vi) The statement must describe the methods used to forecast replacements and the price level used to estimate replacement costs.
