
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.4 Exchange Period Average System Cost determination.
###### Escalation to Exchange Period.

(a)(1) This section describes the method Bonneville will use to escalate the Base Period ASC to and through the Exchange Period to calculate the Exchange Period ASC.

(2) Bonneville will escalate the Bonneville-approved Base Period ASC to the midpoint of the fiscal year for a one-year Rate Period/Exchange Period, and to the midpoint of the two-year period for a two-year Rate Period/Exchange Period to calculate Exchange Period ASCs.

(3) For purposes of the escalation referenced in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, Bonneville will use the following codes in the ASC forecast model to calculate the Exchange Period ASCs:

(i) A&G-Administrative and General.

(ii) CACNT-Customer Account.

(iii) CD-Construction, Distribution Plant.

(iv) CONSTANT-Constant.

(v) CSALES-Customer Sales.

(vi) CSERVE-Customer Service.

(vii) COAL-Coal.

(viii) DMN-Distribution Maintenance.

(ix) DOPS-Distribution Operations

(x) HMN-Hydro Maintenance.

(xi) HOPS-Hydro Operations.

(xii) INF-Inflation.

(xiii) NATGAS-Natural Gas.

(xiv) NFUEL-Nuclear Fuel.

(xv) NMN-Nuclear Maintenance.

(xvi) NOPS-Nuclear Operations.

(xvii) OMN-Other Production Maintenance.

(xviii) OOPS-Other Production Operations.

(xix) SNM-Steam Maintenance.

(xx) SOPS-Steam Operations.

(xxi) TMN-Transmission Maintenance.

(xxii) TOPS-Transmission Operations.

(xxiii) WAGES-Wages.

(4) Table 1 identifies which codes from paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply to the line items and associated FERC Accounts in the Appendix 1. Bonneville will use Global Insight as the source of data for the escalation codes identified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except for the NATGAS and CONSTANT codes. For the NATGAS code identified in paragraph (a)(3)(xiii) of this section, Bonneville will calculate the escalation rate using Bonneville's most current forecast of natural gas prices. The code CONSTANT in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section indicates that no escalation to the Account will be made.

(5) Bonneville will base the costs of power products purchased from Bonneville on Bonneville's forecast of prices for its products.

(6) Bonneville will escalate the Public Purpose Charge forward to the midpoint of the Exchange Period by the same rate of growth as total Contract System Load.

(7) If any of the escalators specified in paragraph (a) of this section are no longer available, Bonneville will designate a replacement source of such escalator(s) that, as near as possible, replicates the results produced by the prior escalator. If a replacement source is not available, Bonneville will use the INF escalation code identified in paragraph (a)(3)(xii) of this section as the replacement escalator.
