
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.4 Exchange Period Average System Cost determination.
###### Short-term sales for resale and power purchases.

(2)(i) The short-term purchases and short-term sales for resale for the Base Period will be used as the starting values. A Utility will be allowed to include new plant additions, and to use a utility-specific forecast for the price of purchased power and for the price of sales for resale in order to value purchased power expenses and sales for resale revenue to be included in the Exchange Period ASC.

(ii) Bonneville will use the following method to determine separate market prices to forecast short-term purchased power expenses and sales for resale revenues to calculate Exchange Period ASCs:

(A) The Utility's average short-term purchased power price and short-term sales for resale price will be calculated for each year for the most recent three years of actual data (Base Period and prior two years).

(B) The midpoint between the Utility's average short-term purchased power price and the average short-term sales for resale price will be calculated for each of the years in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(C) The percentage spread around the Utility's midpoint between the average short-term purchase power price and short-term sales for resale price will be calculated for each of the years identified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(D) A weighted average spread for the Utility's most recent three years of actual data (Base Period and prior two years) will be calculated. The following weighting scale will be used:
