
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.4 Exchange Period Average System Cost determination.
###### Major resource additions and reductions and materiality thresholds.

(c)(1) During the Exchange Period, Bonneville will allow changes to a Utility's ASC to account for major resource additions or reductions that are used to meet a Utility's retail load. These changes, however, must meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section and the materiality threshold described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in order for Bonneville to allow an ASC to change. The ASC reflecting the major resource addition or reduction will be determined by Bonneville in the ASC review process during the Review Period.

(2) For major resource additions, the change to ASC will become effective when the resource begins commercial operation, or power is received under the purchased power contract. For major resource reductions, the change to ASC will become effective when the resource is sold, retired, or transferred.

(3) A major resource addition or reduction must be related to one or more of the following categories to be eligible for consideration as a major resource:

(i) Production or generating resource investments;

(ii) Transmission investments;

(iii) Long-term generating contracts;

(iv) Pollution control and environmental compliance investments relating to generating resources;

(v) Long-term transmission contracts;

(vi) Hydroelectric relicensing costs and fees; and

(vii) Plant rehabilitation investments.

(4) Major resource additions or reductions that meet the criteria identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section will be allowed to change a Utility's ASC within an Exchange Period provided that the major resource addition or reduction results in a 2.5 percent or greater change in a Utility's Base Period ASC. Bonneville will allow a Utility to submit stacks of individual resources that, when combined, meet the 2.5 percent or greater materiality threshold, provided, however, that each resource in the stack must result in a change to the Utility's Base Period ASC of 0.5 percent or more.

(5) At the time the Utility submits its Appendix 1 filing, the Utility will provide its forecast of major resource additions or reductions and all associated costs. The forecast will cover the period from the end of the Base Period to the end of the Exchange Period.

(6) Bonneville will calculate new transmission wheeling revenues associated with new transmission investment using the following formula:

(7) The forecast of major resource additions or reduction costs to be included in the Utility's Exchange Period ASC will be reviewed by Bonneville in the ASC review process that is conducted during the Review Period.

(8) All major resources included in an ASC calculation prior to the start of the Exchange Period will be projected forward to the midpoint of the Exchange Period.

(9) For each major resource addition or reduction that is forecasted to occur during the Exchange Period, Bonneville will calculate the difference in ASC between the ASC without the major resource addition or reduction and the ASC with the major resource addition or reduction (ASC delta) at the midpoint of the Exchange Period.

(10) Once the major resource addition or reduction becomes effective, as determined by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Bonneville will add the ASC delta to the Utility's existing ASC to determine its new ASC.

(11) For purposes of calculating ratios with Distribution Plant, Bonneville will escalate the Base Period average per-MWh cost of Distribution Plant forward to the midpoint of the Exchange Period, and use the escalated average cost to determine the distribution-related cost of meeting load growth since the Base Period.

(12) Bonneville will escalate the cost of General Plant, Accounts 389 through 399.1, forward to the midpoint of the Exchange Period by calculating the ratio of each Account's value in the Base Period to the sum of Production, Transmission, and Distribution plant values in the Base Period, and then multiplying the Base Period ratio times the forecasted value for Production, Transmission, and Distribution plant.

(13) Bonneville will issue procedural rules to ensure the confidentiality of information provided by Utilities regarding any major resource additions or reductions as part of its review process. Bonneville will provide parties with an opportunity to comment on the rules prior to their implementation in the review process. Failure to provide needed information may result in exclusion of the related costs from the Utility's ASC. However, load growth will be assumed to be met with purchases in the wholesale market, as described in paragraph (e) of this section. If the Utility fails to supply confidential resource data, it loses the difference between the cost of the resource and the price of electricity in the wholesale market.
