
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.4 Exchange Period Average System Cost determination.
###### Load growth not met by major resource additions.

(e)All forecast load growth not met by major resource additions will be met by purchased power at the forecasted utility-specific, short-term purchased power price.

(1) The Utility's forecast Load Growth will be met with electric market purchases priced at the Utility's forecast short-term purchased power price as determined in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Utility forecasts major resource additions.

(2) In the event of major resource additions, forecast Load Growth will be met by the major resource(s). If the major resource is less than total forecast load growth, the unmet Load Growth will be met with electric market purchases priced at the Utility's forecast short-term purchased power price.

(3) In the event the power provided by a major resource exceeds the Utility's forecast Load Growth, the excess power will be used to reduce the Utility's short-term purchases. If short-term power purchases are reduced to zero, any remaining power will be sold as surplus power at the short-term sales for resale price as determined in paragraph (b) of this section.
