
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.6 Appendix 1 instructions.

(a) Appendix 1 is the form on which a Utility reports its Contract System Cost, Contract System Load, and other necessary data for the calculation of ASC. Appendix 1 is an electronic template consisting of seven schedules and several supporting files that must be completed by the Utility in accordance with these instructions and with the provisions of the endnotes following the schedules.

(b) Appendix 1 filings must be accompanied by an attestation statement of the Chief Financial Officer of the Utility or other responsible official who possesses the financial and accounting knowledge necessary to complete the attestation statement.

(c) The primary source of data for the Investor-owned Utilities' Appendix 1 filings is the Utility's prior year FERC Form 1 filings with the Commission. Any items not applicable to the Utility must be identified.

(d) For Consumer-owned Utilities that do not follow the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts, filings must include reconciliation between Utility Accounts and the items allowed as Contract System Cost. In addition, the cost-of-service report must be reviewed by an independent accounting or consulting firm, and must be accompanied by a report from that independent accounting or consulting firm that outlines the review work that was performed in preparing the cost-of-service report along with an assurance statement that the information contained in the cost-of-service report is presented fairly in all material respects.
