
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.6 Appendix 1 instructions.
###### http://www.bpa.gov/corporate/finance/ascm/.

(e) The Appendix 1 template is available electronically atThe primary schedules are:

(1) Schedule 1: Plant Investment/Rate Base

(2) Schedule 1A: Cash Working Capital

(3) Schedule 2: Capital Structure and Rate of Return

(4) Schedule 3: Expenses

(5) Schedule 3A: Taxes

(6) Schedule 3B: Other Included Items

(7) Schedule 4: Average System Cost

(f) The filing Utility must reference and attach work papers, documentation and other required information that support costs and loads, including details of allocation and functionalization. All references to the Commission's Accounts are to the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts, as amended by subsequent Commission actions. The costs includable in the attached schedules are those includable by reason of the definitions in the Commission's Accounts. If the Commission's Accounts are later revised or renumbered, any changes will be incorporated into the Appendix 1 by reference, except to the extent Bonneville determines that a particular change results in a change in the type of costs allowable for Residential Exchange Program purposes. In that event, Bonneville will address the changes, including escalation rules, in its review process for the following Exchange Period.

(g) Bonneville may require a Utility to account for all transactions with affiliated entities as though the affiliated entities were owned in whole or in part by the Utility, if necessary, to properly determine and/or functionalize the Utility's costs.

(h) A Utility operating in more than one Pacific Northwest Jurisdiction must file one Appendix 1.

(i)(1) A Utility operating in a Jurisdiction within the Pacific Northwest and within Jurisdictions outside the Pacific Northwest must allocate its total system costs among its Jurisdictions within the Pacific Northwest and outside the Pacific Northwest in accord with the same allocation methods and procedures used by the Regulatory Body(ies) to establish Jurisdictional costs and resulting revenue requirements. The Utility's Appendix filing must include details of the allocation.

(2) The allocation must exclude all costs of additional resources used to meet loads outside the Pacific Northwest, as required by section 5(c)(7) of the Northwest Power Act. All schedule entries and supporting data must be in accord with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and Practices as these principles and practices apply to the electric utility industry.

(j) A Utility must file an attestation statement with each Appendix 1 filing and supporting documentation for each Review Period.
