
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter L - Regulations for Federal Power Marketing Administrations
#### PART 301 - AVERAGE SYSTEM COST METHODOLOGY FOR SALES FROM UTILITIES TO BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION UNDER NORTHWEST POWER ACT
##### ยง 301.7 Average System Cost methodology functionalization.
###### Functionalization methods.

(d)(1) Direct analysis, if allowed or required by Table 1, assigns costs, revenues, debits and credits to the Production, Transmission, and/or Distribution/Other function of the Utility. The only exception to this requirement is for Accounts that include conservation-related costs. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a Utility may conduct a Direct Analysis on any Account that contains conservation-related costs. The Direct Analysis performed by a Utility is subject to Bonneville review and approval.

(2) Bonneville will not allow a Utility to use a combination of Direct Analysis and a prescribed functionalization method for the same Account. The Utility can develop and use a functionalization ratio, or use a prescribed functionalization method, if the Utility, through Direct Analysis, can justify how the ratio reflects the functional nature of the costs, revenues, debits, or credits included in any Account.

(3) A Utility that wishes to include advertising and promotion costs related to conservation will use Direct Analysis.
