
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 341 - OIL PIPELINE TARIFFS: OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO SECTION 6 OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### ยง 341.0 Definitions; application.
###### General application.

(b)(1) Each carrier must publish, post, and file with the Commission tariff publications which contain in clear, complete, and specific form all the rules and regulations governing the rates and charges for services performed in accordance with the tariff. Tariffs must be published in a format that ensures the tariffs are readable and that their terms and conditions are easy to understand and apply.

(2) The Commission may reject, or may require modification, correction, or reissuance of, any tariff publication or other document not in compliance with the law.

(3) All tariffs filed on or after December 6, 1993 must conform to the regulations of this part. Tariffs which are on file as of that date will not have to be reissued solely to conform to this part.

(4) Each carrier must post and maintain a complete and current set of all proposed, current, and suspended tariff publications which it has issued or to which it is a party. The carrier must identify in its posted tariff files any tariff publication under suspension and investigation. Each carrier must afford inquirers reasonable opportunity to examine its posted tariff files.
