
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 341 - OIL PIPELINE TARIFFS: OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO SECTION 6 OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### ยง 341.3 Form of tariff.
###### specify date

(ii) Reissued items must include in the square or brackets the number of the tariff supplement where the item was first issued or amended. If the letter designation is used, the number of the supplement must be shown together with the letter. The references must be explained at the end of the tariff. For example: "[R2] Reissued from Supplement No. 2, effective []."

(iii) The symbols and letter designations contained in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section must not be used for any other purpose.

(iv) When the same change is made in all or in substantially all rates in a tariff, a tariff supplement, or a tariff or tariff supplement page, that fact and the nature of the change must be indicated in distinctive type at the top of the title page of the issue, or at the top of each page, as appropriate. For example: "All rates in this issue are increased," or "All rates on this page are reduced unless otherwise indicated."

(v) When a tariff publication that cancels a previous tariff publication does not include points of origin or destination, or rates, rules, or routes that were contained in the prior tariff publication, the new tariff publication must indicate the cancellation. If such omissions effect changes in charges or services, that fact must be indicated by the use of the symbols prescribed in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section.

(vi) Only revisions to tariff provisions identified in the filing constitute the tariff filing. Revisions to unidentified portions of the rate schedule or tariff are not considered part of the filing nor will any acceptance of the filing by the Commission constitute acceptance of such unmarked changes.

(11) Tariff publications must be consecutively numbered.
