
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 342 - OIL PIPELINE RATE METHODOLOGIES AND PROCEDURES
##### ยง 342.3 Indexing.
###### Derivation of the ceiling level.

(d)(1) A carrier must compute the ceiling level for each index year by multiplying the previous index year's ceiling level by the most recent index published by the Commission. The index will be published by the Commission prior to June 1 of each year.

(2) The index published by the Commission will be based on the change in the final Producer Price Index for Finished Goods (PPI-FG), seasonally adjusted, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the two calendar years immediately preceding the index year. The index will be calculated by dividing the PPI-FG for the calendar year immediately preceding the index year, by the previous calendar year's PPI-FG.

(3) A carrier must compute the ceiling level each index year without regard to the actual rates filed pursuant to this section. All carriers must round their ceiling levels each index year to the nearest hundredth of a cent.

(4) For purposes of computing the ceiling level for the period January 1, 1995 through June 30, 1995, a carrier must use the rate in effect on December 31, 1994 as the previous index year's ceiling level in the computation in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If the rate in effect on December 31, 1994 is subsequently lowered by Commission order pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act, the ceiling level based on such rate must be recomputed, in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, using the rate established by such Commission order in lieu of the rate in effect on December 31, 1994.

(5) When an initial rate, or rate changed by a method other than indexing, takes effect during the index year, such rate will constitute the applicable ceiling level for that index year. If such rate is subsequently lowered by Commission order pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act, the ceiling level based on such rate must be recomputed, in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, using the rate established by such Commission order as the ceiling level for the index year which includes the effective date of the rate established by such Commission order.
