
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### ยง 4.36 Competing applications: deadlines for filing; notices of intent; comparisons of plans of development.
####### Deadlines for filing applications in competition with an initial development application.

(b)(1) Any development application not filed pursuant to a notice of intent must be submitted for filing in competition with an initial development application not later than the prescribed intervention deadline.

(2) Any development application filed pursuant to a notice of intent must be submitted for filing in competition with an initial development application not later than 120 days after the prescribed intervention deadline.

(3) If the Commission has accepted an application for exemption of a project from licensing and the application has not yet been granted or denied, the applicant for exemption may submit a license application for the project if it is a qualified license applicant. The pending application for exemption from licensing will be considered withdrawn as of the date the Commission accepts the license application for filing. If a license application is accepted for filing under this provision, any qualified license applicant may submit a competing license application not later than the prescribed intervention deadline set for the license application.

(4) Any preliminary permit application must be submitted for filing in competition with an initial development application not later than the deadlines prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) for the submission of preliminary permit applications filed in competition with an initial preliminary permit application.
