
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 346 - OIL PIPELINE COST-OF-SERVICE FILING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 346.2 Material in support of initial rates or change in rates.
###### Base and test periods defined.

(a)(1) For a carrier which has been in operation for at least 12 months:

(i) A base period must consist of 12 consecutive months of actual experience. The 12 months of experience must be adjusted to eliminate nonrecurring items (except minor accounts). The filing carrier may include appropriate normalizing adjustments in lieu of nonrecurring items.

(ii) A test period must consist of a base period adjusted for changes in revenues and costs which are known and are measurable with reasonable accuracy at the time of filing and which will become effective within nine months after the last month of available actual experience utilized in the filing. For good cause shown, the Commission may allow reasonable deviation from the prescribed test period.

(2) For a carrier which has less than 12 months' experience, the test period may consist of 12 consecutive months ending not more than one year from the filing date. For good cause shown, the Commission may allow reasonable deviation from the prescribed test period.

(3) For a carrier which is establishing rates for new service, the test period will be based on a 12-month projection of costs and revenues.
