
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 347 - OIL PIPELINE DEPRECIATION STUDIES
##### ยง 347.1 Material to support request for newly established or changed property account depreciation studies.
###### e.g.,

(1) A brief summary relating to the general principles on which the proposed depreciation rates are based (why the economic life of the pipeline section is less then the physical life).

(2) An explanation of the organization, ownership, and operation of the pipeline.

(3) A table of the proposed depreciation rates by account.

(4) An explanation of the average remaining life on a physical basis and on an economic basis.

(5) The following specific background data must be submitted at the time of and concurrently with any request for the establishment of, or modification to, depreciation rates for carriers. If the information listed is not applicable, it may be omitted from the filing:

(i) Up-to-date engineering maps of the pipeline including the location of all gathering facilities, trunkline facilities, terminals, interconnections with other pipeline systems, and interconnections with refineries/plants. Maps must indicate the direction of flow.

(ii) A brief description of the carrier's operations and an estimate of any major near-term additions or retirements including the estimated costs, location, reason, and probable year of transaction.

(iii) The present depreciation rates being used by account.

(iv) For the most current year available and for the two prior years, a breakdown of the throughput (by type of product, if applicable) received with source (e.g. name of well, pipeline company) at each receipt point and throughput delivered at each delivery point.

(v) The daily average capacity (in barrels per day) and the actual average capacity (in barrels per day) for the most current year, by line section.

(vi) A list of shipments and their associated receipt points, delivery points, and volumes (in barrels) by type of product (where applicable) for the most current year.

(vii) For each primary carrier account, the latest month's book balances for gross plant and for accumulated reserve for depreciation.

(viii) An estimate of the remaining life of the system (both gathering and trunk lines) including the basis for the estimate.

(ix) For crude oil, a list of the fields or areas from which crude oil is obtained.

(x) If the proposed depreciation rate adjustment is based on the remaining physical life of the properties, a complete, or updated, if applicable, Service Life Data Form (FERC Form No. 73) through the most current year.

(xi) Estimated salvage value of properties by account.
