
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter P - Regulations Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 348 - OIL PIPELINE APPLICATIONS FOR MARKET POWER DETERMINATIONS
##### § 348.2 Procedures.

(a) All filings under this part must be made electronically pursuant to the requirements of §§ 341.1 and 341.2 of this chapter. A carrier seeking privileged treatment for all or any part of its filing must submit a request for privileged treatment in accordance with § 388.112 of this chapter.

(b) A carrier must provide a copy of its letter of transmittal and its proposed form of protective agreement to each shipper and subscriber on or before the day the material is transmitted to the Commission for filing.

(c) A letter of transmittal must describe the market-based rate filing, including an identification of each rate that would be market-based, and the pertinent tariffs, state if a waiver is being requested and specify the statute, section, subsection, regulation, policy or order requested to be waived. Letters of transmittal must be certified pursuant to § 341.1(b) of this chapter.

(d) An interested person must make a written request to the carrier for a copy of the carrier's complete application within 20 days after the filing of the application. The request must include an executed copy of the protective agreement. Any objection to the proposed form of protective agreement must be filed under § 385.212 of this chapter.

(e) A carrier must provide a copy of the complete application to the requesting person within seven days after receipt of the written request and an executed copy of the protective agreement.

(f) A carrier must provide copies as required by paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section by first-class mail or by other means of transmission agreed upon in writing.

(g) Any intervention or protest to the application must be filed within 60 days after the filing of the application and must be filed pursuant to §§ 343.2 (a) and (b) of this chapter. A protest must also be telefaxed if required by § 343.3(a) of this chapter.

(h) A protest filed against an application for a market power determination must set forth in detail the grounds for opposing the carrier's application, including responding to its position and information and, if desired, presenting information pursuant to § 348.1(c).

(i) After expiration of the date for filing protests, the Commission will issue an order in which it will summarily rule on the application or, if appropriate, establish additional procedures and the scope of the investigation.
