
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Taxable income

(d)means the excess of revenues over deductions or the excess of deductions over revenues to be reported for income tax purposes for a period.

(e) "Temporary difference" means a difference between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the financial statements that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years when the reported amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled, respectively. Some events recognized in financial statements do not have tax consequences. Certain revenues are exempt from taxation and certain expenses are not deductible. Events that do not have tax consequences do not give rise to temporary differences.

(f) "Deductible temporary difference" means temporary differences that result in deductible amounts in future years when the related asset or liability is recovered or settled, respectively.

(g) "Deferred tax asset" means the deferred tax consequences attributable to deductible temporary differences and carryforwards. A deferred tax asset is measured using the applicable enacted tax rate and provisions of the enacted tax law. A valuation allowance should be recognized if it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

(h) "Deferred tax liability" means the deferred tax consequences attributable to taxable temporary differences. A deferred tax liability is measured using the applicable enacted tax rate and provisions of the enacted tax law.
