
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Rates.

(b)(1) Separate composite annual percentage rates will be prescribed for each depreciable account except that the Commission may authorize the use of component rates upon specific request from a carrier. Carriers becoming subject to this system of accounts and carriers acquiring property for which no rates have been previously prescribed shall file, within six months, composite annual percentage rates applicable to the book cost of each class of depreciable carrier property as will distribute the service value, by the straight-line method, in equal annual charges to operating expenses during the service life of the property. These rates shall be used by the carrier until the rates prescribed by the Commission become effective. Such rates shall, for each primary account comprised of more than one class of property, produce a depreciation charge equal to the sum of the amounts that would otherwise be chargeable for each of the various classes of property included in the account. Carriers shall base these percentage rates on estimated service values and service lives developed from engineering and other studies. The rates filed shall be accompanied by a statement showing the bases and the methods employed in the rate determination.

(2) Carriers shall be prepared at any time upon the direction of the Commission to compute and submit revised percentage rate studies. When a carrier believes that any rate prescribed by the Commission is no longer applicable, it shall submit the rate which it believes should be established supported by full particulars for consideration by the Commission.

(3) A carrier shall keep records of property and property retirements that will reflect the service life of property which has been retired, or will permit the determination of service life indications by mortality, turnover, or other appropriate methods; and also such records as will reflect the percentage of net salvage value for property retired from each class of depreciable carrier property.
