
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Accounting for income taxes.

1-12(a) The interperiod tax allocation method of accounting shall be applied to all material temporary differences (see definition 30(e)) between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the financial statements that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years. Carriers may elect, as provided by the Revenue Act of 1971, to account for the investment tax credit by either the flow through method or the deferred method of accounting. See paragraphs (d) and (e) below. All income taxes (Federal, State, and other) currently accruable for income tax return purposes shall be charged to account 670, Income taxes on income from continuing operations, and account 695, Income taxes on extraordinary items, as applicable.

(b) Under the interperiod tax allocation method of accounting a deferred tax liability or asset is to be recognized for all temporary differences (see definition 30(e)) that result in taxable amounts in future years when the related asset or liability is recovered or settled. Deferred taxes are classified as current or noncurrent based on the classification of the related asset or liability. A carrier shall apply the applicable enacted tax rate in determining the amount of deferred taxes. The carrier shall adjust its deferred tax liabilities and assets for the effect of the change in tax law or rates in the period that the change is enacted. The adjustment shall be recorded in the proper deferred tax balance sheet accounts based on the nature of the temporary difference and the related classification requirements of the account.

(c) An entity shall record the income tax effects of a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward as a deferred tax asset in the year the loss occurs. In the event that it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion of its deferred tax assets will not be realized, a carrier shall reduce the asset by a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance should be recorded in a separate subaccount of the deferred tax asset account. The carrier shall disclose full particulars as to the nature and amount of each type of operating loss and tax credit carryforward in the notes to its financial statements.

(d) Carriers electing to account for the investment tax credit by the flow through method shall credit account 670, Income taxes on income from continuing operations, or account 695, Income taxes on extraordinary items, as applicable, and charge to account 56, Taxes payable, with the amount of investment tax credit utilized in the current accounting period. When the flow through method is followed for the investment tax credit, account 671, Provision for deferred taxes, shall reflect the difference between the tax payable (after recognition of allowable investment tax credit) based on taxable income and tax expense (with full recognition of investment tax credit that would be allowable based on accounting income) based on accounting income.

(e) Carriers electing to account for the investment tax credit by the deferred method shall concurrently with making the entries prescribed in (d) above charge account 671, "Provision for deferred taxes" or account 696, "Provision for deferred taxes-extraordinary items," as applicable, and shall credit account 64, Accumulated Deferred Income Tax Liabilities with the investment tax credit utilized as a reduction of the current year's tax liability but deferred for accounting purposes. The investment tax credit so deferred shall be amortized by credits to account 671, "Provision for deferred taxes".
