
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Transactions with affiliated companies.

1-13(a) The records and supporting data of all transactions with affiliated companies shall be maintained in a separate file. The types of transactions referred to in this paragraph are for management services or any other type of services rendered, sale or use of facilities or any other type of assets or property. The file shall be maintained so as to enable the carrier, to furnish accurate information with supporting documentation about particular transactions within 15 days of the request. We do not intend the file to include data relating to ordinary carrier operations (e.g. lawful tariff charges).

(b) Each bill rendered by an affiliated company shall state specifically the basis used for determining charges, unless the file contains other information to support the specific basis for charges.

(c) Punched cards, magnetic tapes, discs, or other machine-sensible device used for recording, consolidating, and summarizing accounting transactions and records with a carrier's electronic or automatic data processing system may constitute a file within the meaning of this instruction.

(d) The carrier shall record, as the cost of assets or services received from an affiliated supplier, the invoice price (plus any incidental costs related to those transactions) in those cases where the invoice price can be determined from a prevailing price list of the affiliated supplier available to the general public in the normal course of business. If no such price list exists, the charges shall be recorded at the lower of their cost to the originating affiliated supplier (less all applicable valuation reserves in case of asset sales), or their estimated fair market value determined on the basis of a representative study of similar competitive and arm's-length or bargained transactions.

Any difference between actual transaction price and the above, as well as charges that are not transportation related, shall be considered of a financing nature and shall be recorded, accordingly, as nonoperating charges or credits. (See Instruction 1-14).

(e) Nothing contained herein shall be construed as restraining the carrier from subdividing accounts (see Instruction 1-2(a)) for the purpose of recording separately transactions with affiliated companies.
