
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.

1-18

(a) A carrier shall recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the financial statements and measure those instruments at fair value, except those falling within recognized exceptions, the most common of which being the normal purchases and sales scope exception. Normal purchases or sales are contracts that provide for the purchase or sale of goods that will be delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold by the utility over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. A derivative instrument is a financial instrument or other contract with all three of the following characteristics:

(1) It has one or more underlyings and a notional amount or payment provision. Those terms determine the amount of the settlement or settlements, and, in some cases, whether or not a settlement is required.

(2) It requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts that would be expected to have similar response to changes in market factors.

(3) Its terms require or permit net settlement, can readily be settled net by a means outside the contract, or provides for delivery of an asset that puts the recipient in a position not substantially different from net settlement.

(b) The accounting for the changes in the fair value of derivative instruments depends upon its intended use and designation. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as fair value or cash flow hedges shall be recorded in account 46, derivative instrument assets, or account 65, derivative instrument liabilities, as appropriate, with the gains recorded in account 640, miscellaneous income, and losses recorded in account 660, miscellaneous income charges.

(c) A derivative instrument may be specifically designated as a fair value or cash flow hedge. A hedge may be used to manage risk to price, interest rates, or foreign currency transactions. An entity shall maintain documentation of the hedge relationship at the inception of the hedge that details the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the nature of the risk being hedged, and how hedge effectiveness will be determined.

(d) If the carrier designates the derivative instrument as a fair value hedge against exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or a firm commitment, it shall record the change in fair value of the derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge to account 47, derivative instrument assets-hedges, or account 66, derivative instrument liabilities-hedges, as appropriate, with a corresponding adjustment to the subaccount of the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the hedge transaction shall be reflected in the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income. In the case of a fair value hedge of a firm commitment, a new asset or liability is created. As a result of the hedge relationship, the new asset or liability will become part of the carrying amount of the item being hedged.

(e) If the carrier designates the derivative instrument as a cash flow hedge against exposure to variable cash flows of a probable forecasted transaction, it shall record changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument in account 47, derivative instrument assets-hedges, or account 66, derivative instrument liabilities-hedges, as appropriate, with a corresponding amount in account 77, accumulated other comprehensive income, for the effective portion of the hedge. The ineffective portion of the hedge transaction shall be reflected in the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods that the hedged forecasted item enters into the determination of net income.
