
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### For financial statement purposes

(c)(1)the carrier shall follow the principles of equity accounting for (1) all investments in corporate joint ventures (see definition 31(c)), and (2) all investments in voting stock of affiliated companies giving the carrier the ability to significantly influence the operating and financial policies of an investee (see definition 31(b)). For purposes of this instruction an investment of 20 percent or more of the outstanding voting stock of an investee will indicate the ability to exercise significant influence over an investee in the absence of evidence to the contrary.

(2) Since the equity method is not to be effected by entries in the books of accounts but is to apply only in financial reports to the Commission, the carrier shall establish worksheet or memorandum accounts. Three basic worksheet or memorandum accounts are needed:

(a) An investment account to include (1) equity in the undistributed earnings or losses of the investee since the date of acquisition (see definition 31(g)); (2) accumulated amortization of the difference between cost and net assets at date of acquisition (see (c)(3) below); and other adjustments for disposition or writedown of investments.

(b) An income account to include (1) the investor's share of the investee's undistributed profits or losses for each reporting period subsequent to acquisition of the investment except that in the year of acquisition such amount shall be determined from the date of acquisition; (2) amortization for the reporting period of the difference between cost and net assets at date of acquisition. This account shall be closed at year-end to the retained income memorandum account discussed in paragraph (c) below.

(c) A retained income account to include (1) equity in the undistributed earnings or losses of the investee since the date of acquisition; (2) accumulated amortization of the difference between cost and net assets acquired at date of acquisition (see (c)(3) below).

(d) Other memorandum accounts will be needed for such adjustments as gains and losses on disposition of investments, recognition of impairments in value, the investor's share of extraordinary and prior period items reported in the investee's financial statements (see instruction 1-6), and provision for deferred taxes where it is reasonable to assume that undistributed earnings of an investee will be transferred to the investor in a taxable distribution. These memorandum accounts shall be closed at year-end to the retained income memorandum account discussed in paragraph (c) above.

(3) The carrier shall retain the following information for each investee in support of the worksheet or memorandum accounts:

(a) Original cost of investment.

(b) Equity in net assets of investee at date of acquisition.

(c) Allocation of difference between cost and equity in net assets, namely, to specific assets of investee or to goodwill.

(d) Accumulated amortization of difference between cost and equity in net assets.

(e) Unamortized balance of difference between cost and equity in net assets.

(f) Equity in undistributed earnings/losses for each year since date of acquisition.

(g) Dividends received since date of acquisition if determinable.

(h) Proceeds from sale of investments.

(4) Any difference between the investor's cost and its share of the net assets of the investee at date of acquisition shall be allocated to specific assets of the investee to the extent the difference is attributable to them. When the difference is allocated to depreciable or amortizable assets, depreciation and amortization (through the investment and income memorandum accounts) should absorb the difference over the remaining life of the related assets. If the difference is not related to specific accounts, it should be considered goodwill and amortized over a reasonable period not to exceed 40 years. For investments made prior to November 1, 1970, amortization of goodwill is not required in the absence of evidence that the goodwill has a limited term of existence.

(5) The financial statements of the investee that are used for equity accounting should be timely. If the accounting year of the investee differs from that of the investor then the most recent available financial statements may be used. The lag in reporting should be consistent from period to period.

(6) Material profits or losses on transactions between the investor and investee shall be eliminated until realized by either company as if the two were consolidated.

(7) A transaction of the investee of a capital nature that affects the investor's share of the investee's stockholder's equity should be reported in the financial statements as if the two were consolidated.

(8) The investor shall deduct any dividends applicable to outstanding cumulative preferred stock whether or not declared, and any other dividends declared when computing its share of undistributed earnings or losses.

(9) The investor shall suspend application of the equity method when the investment (including the investment memorandum account) together with any net advances made to the investee is reduced to zero. Additional losses shall not be provided for unless the investor has guaranteed obligations of the investee or is otherwise committed to provide further financial support for the investee. If the investee subsequently reports net income the investor shall resume applying the equity method at such time as its share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period of suspension.

(10) When the investor's voting stock interest falls below the level of ownership described in paragraph (c)(1) of this instruction, the investment no longer qualifies for the equity method. Should dividends received on the investment in subsequent periods exceed the investor's share of earnings for such periods, the investment memorandum and income memorandum accounts shall be reduced by the excess amount.

(11) When the level of ownership of an investment increases to that described in paragraph (c)(1) of this instruction, the equity method shall be applied. The memorandum accounts for the investment, income (for current year's equity in undistributed earnings less amortization), and retained income (for prior years' equity in undistributed earnings less amortization) shall be adjusted retroactively on a step-by-step basis determining the equity in net assets at date of acquisition, amortization adjustment, and equity in undistributed earnings or losses at each level of ownership. Where small purchases are made over a period of time and then a purchase is made which qualifies the investment for the equity method, the date of latest purchase may be used as date of acquisition. In those situations where the information needed to apply the equity method is not determinable, the date of acquisition may be considered as January 1, 1974.

(12) Information having significance with respect to the investor's ownership in investees shall be disclosed in notes to financial statements of annual reports filed with the Commission in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
