
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Property acquired.

3-1(a) In general the carrier property accounts shall be charged with the cost of property purchased or constructed and with the cost of additions and improvements. However, the acquisition of properties comprising a distinct operating system, or an integral portion thereof, when the purchase price exceeds $250,000, shall be accounted for in accordance with the provisions set forth in instruction 3-11.

(b) The cost of purchased property is the net price paid on a cash basis, or if other than money is given, the current value of that consideration. Cost includes the purchase price; sales, use, and excise taxes, and ad valorem taxes during periods of construction; transportation charges; insurance in transit; installation charges; and expenditures for testing and final preparation for use.

(c) Property acquired from an affiliated company through purchase or transfer shall be recorded together with the related accrued depreciation and liabilities assumed, if any, in the appropriate property accounts at the same amount that it was recorded on the books of the affiliate. When the purchase price exceeds the net book value of the property acquired, the difference shall be charged to retained income. When the purchase price is less than the net book value, the difference shall be credited to account 73, Additional Paid-in Capital. This does not apply to small miscellaneous purchases or transfers.

(d) The purchase of a proportionate share of a pipeline system or facility owned in undivided interests shall be recorded at the amount that the percentage of interest acquired bears to the whole. Any excess of deficiency of purchase price over the amount so recorded shall be debited to account 44, Other Deferred Charges, or credited to account 63, Other Noncurrent Liabilities, as appropriate, and amortized in equal periodic amounts over the remaining service life of the system or facility through income.

3-2 [Reserved]
