
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Cost of property constructed.

3-3The cost of constructing property chargeable to the carrier property accounts shall include direct and other costs as described hereunder:

(1) Cost of labor includes the amount paid for labor performed by the carrier's own employees and officers. This includes payroll taxes, vacation pay, pensions, holiday pay and traveling and other incidental expenses of employees. No charge shall be made to these accounts for pay and expenses of officers and employees who merely render services incidentally in connection with extensions, additions or replacements.

(2) Cost of material and supplies includes the purchase price (less purchase and trade discounts) of material and supplies, including small tools, at the point of free delivery; costs of inspection and loading borne by the carrier; transportation charges; sales, use and excise taxes; and when applicable a proportionate share of stores expenses. In calculating the cost of material and supplies used, proper allowance shall be made for the value of unused portions and other salvage, for the value of the material recovered from temporary scaffolding, cofferdams and other temporary structures used in construction: and for the value of small tools recovered and used for other purposes.

(3)(i) Cost of special machine service includes the cost of labor expended and of materials and supplies consumed in maintaining and operating vehicles, equipment, and other machines used in construction work; and rents paid for the use of such machines.

(ii) When machines are purchased primarily for a construction project, their cost shall be charged to account 187, Construction Work in Progress. Upon completion of the construction project, account 187 shall be credited with amounts received for machines sold or the book cost (less a fair allowance for depreciation during the construction period) of machines retained for use in carrier service. The net book cost shall be included in the appropriate carrier property accounts.

(iii) The cost of repairs to vehicles and other work equipment and of machine tools and machinery which are used both in construction and maintenance work shall be apportioned equitably to the work in connection with which the equipment is used.

(4) Cost of transportation includes the amounts paid to other companies or individuals for the transportation of employees, material and supplies, special machine outfits, appliances, and tools in connection with construction and also the cost of hauling performed by the carrier's own forces and facilities. The cost of the transportation of construction material to the point where material is received by the carrier shall be included, so far as practicable, as a part of the cost of such material.

(5) Cost of contract work includes amounts paid for construction work performed under contract by other companies, firms, or individuals, and cost incident to the award of the contract.

(6) Cost of protection includes expenditures for protection in connection with construction. This includes the cost of protection against fires, cost of detecting and prosecuting incendiaries, amounts paid to municipal corporations and others for fire protection, cost of protecting property of others from damages, and analogous items.

(7) Cost of injuries and damages includes expenditures for injuries to persons or damage to property when incident to construction projects, and shall be included in the cost of the related construction work. It also includes that portion of premiums paid for insuring property prior to the completion or coming into service of the property insured. Insurance recovered for compensation paid for injuries to persons incident to construction shall be credited to the accounts to which such compensation is charged. Any insurance recovered for damages to property incident to construction shall be credited to the accounts chargeable with the expenditures necessary for restoring the damaged property. The cost of injuries and damages in connection with the removal of old structures which are encumbrances on newly acquired lands shall be included in the cost of land, or rights of way.

(8) Cost of privileges and permits includes compensation for temporary privileges, such as the use of private or public property or of streets, in connection with construction work.

(9) Taxes include taxes on property during construction and before the facilities are completed and ready for service. This includes taxes on land held under a definite plan for its use in pipeline service for the period prior to the completion of pipeline facilities thereon and other taxes separately assessed on property during construction, or assessed under conditions which permit separate identification or allocation of the amount chargeable to construction.

(10) Rent includes payments for use of facilities, such as motor vehicles, special tools or machines, and quarters used for construction work.

(11)(i) Interest during construction includes interest expense on bonds, notes and other interest bearing debt incurred in the construction of carrier property (less interest, if any, earned on funds temporarily invested) after such funds become available for use and before the receipt or the completion or coming into service of the property. The interest shall be included in the accounts charged with the cost of the property to which related.

(ii) There shall be deducted from such interest charges a proportion of premium on securities sold. There shall be added a proportion of discount and expense on funded debt issued for the acquisition or construction of carrier property. The amount of premium and discount and expense thus related shall be determined by the ratio which the period between the date the proceeds from the securities issued become available and the receipt, completion, or coming into service of the property bears to the entire life of the securities issued.

(iii) Interest during construction shall not be recognized on the asset retirement costs incurred during the construction of carrier and noncarrier property.

(12) Cost of disposing of excavated material shall be included in the cost of construction except that when such material is used for filling, the cost of loading, hauling, and dumping shall be equitably apportioned between the work for which removal is made and the work for which the material is used.

(13) Asset retirement costs that are recognized as a result of asset retirement obligations incurred during construction shall be included in the cost of construction costs.
