
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Land.

(a)The book cost of land retired shall be removed from the property accounts. Gain or loss on the sale of land shall be recorded in account 640, Miscellaneous Income, or account 660, Miscellaneous Income Charges.

(b) Property. (1) The book cost, as set forth in paragraph c below, of units of property retired and of minor items of property retired and not replaced shall be written out of the property account as of date of retirement, and the service value shall be charged to account 31, Accrued Depreciation-Carrier Property.

(2) In case of casualty loss, insurance proceeds recovered shall be credited to account 31, Accrued Depreciation-Carrier Property, in an amount not to exceed the book cost of the property involved. Any excess amount shall be credited to account 640, Miscellaneous Income.

(3) Carrier property no longer used nor held for carrier operations but used or intended for use in noncarrier operations shall be transferred, along with the amount of past accrued depreciation, estimated if necessary, to noncarrier property.

(c) The book cost of carrier property retired shall be determined from the carrier's records and if this cannot be done it shall be estimated. When it is impracticable to determine the book cost of each unit, due to the relatively large number or small cost thereof, an appropriate average book cost of the units, with due allowance for any differences in size and character, shall be used as the book cost of the units retired. Oil pipelines must furnish the particulars of such estimates to the Commission, if requested.
