
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Approval of accounting.

(c)(1) Tentative journal entries recording the acquisition of pipeline properties shall be submitted to the Commission for consideration and approval. The entries shall give a complete description of the property purchased and the basis upon which the amounts of the entries have been determined. Any portion of the purchase price attributable to intangible property shall be separately recorded as hereinafter provided in account 40, Organization Costs and Other Intangibles.

(2) When the costs of individual or groups of transportation property are not specified in the agreement or in supporting documents, or when separate costs are not provided for the physical property and the intangible property, the total purchase price shall be equitably apportioned among the appropriate property or other accounts, based on the percentage relationship between the purchase price and the original cost of property shown in the valuation records of the Commission or the fair market value of the properties. The portion of the total price assignable to the physical property shall be supported by independent appraisal or such other information as the Commission may consider appropriate. In no event shall amounts recorded for physical properties and other assets acquired exceed the total purchase price.

(3)(a) Where the purchase price is in excess of amounts recorded for the net assets acquired, such excess shall be included in account 40, Organization Costs and Other Intangibles.

(b) The excess of the purchase price over amounts includable in the primary carrier property accounts shall be amortized through account 660, "Miscellaneous income charges," or otherwise disposed of, as the Commission may approve or direct.
