
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### Expense distribution.

4-5The several classes of expenses shall be directly allocated to applicable service functions to the fullest possible extent. Expenses common to two or more functions and system expenses shall be equitably apportioned to the service functions. The basis for apportionment and the underlying records in support thereof shall be readily available for inspection by the Commission's examiners.

This account shall include money, checks, sight drafts and sight bills of exchange, money in banks or in other depositories subject to withdrawal on demand, and other similar items. The amount of checks and sight drafts transmitted to payees which are unpaid at the close of the accounting period shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include cash deposits, either placed in hands of trustees or under the direct control of the reporting company, which are restricted for specific purposes. Examples are those deposits made for the payment of dividends and interest due within one year, the liquidation of other current liabilities, to guarantee fulfillment of current contract obligations, to meet specific operating requirements, or compensating balances (see Definition 33) under an agreement which legally restricts the use of such funds and which constitute support for short-term borrowing arrangements. Sub-accounts may be set up, if necessary to account for special deposits for specific purposes.

(a) This account shall include the cost of securities and other collectible obligations acquired for the purpose of temporarily investing cash, such as United States Treasury certificates, marketable securities, time drafts receivable, demand loans, time deposits with banks and trust companies, and other similar investments of a temporary character. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.
