
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### See

(b) This account shall be subdivided to reflect the marketable equity securities' portion and other temporary investments. (Instruction 1-15).

This account shall include the book cost, not includible elsewhere, of all collectible obligations in the form of notes receivable, contracts receivable, and similar evidences (except interest coupons) of money receivable on demand or within a time not exceeding one year from date of the balance sheet. Notes receivable from affiliates shall be included in account 13, Receivables from Affiliated Companies.

(a) This account shall include amounts receivable due and accrued from affiliated companies subject to settlement within one year from date of the balance sheet. This includes receivables for items such as revenue for services rendered, material furnished, rent, interest and dividends, advances and notes.

(b) An oil pipeline company participating in a cash management program must maintain supporting documentation for all deposits into, borrowings from, interest income from, and interest expense to such program. Cash management programs include all agreements in which funds in excess of the daily needs of the oil pipeline company along with the excess funds of the oil pipeline company's parent, affiliated and subsidiary companies are concentrated, consolidated, or otherwise made available for use by other entities within the corporate group. The written documentation must include the following information:

(1) For deposits with and withdrawals from the cash management program: The date of the deposit or withdrawal, the amount of the deposit or withdrawal, and the maturity date, if any, of the deposit;

(2) For borrowings from a cash management program: The date of the borrowing, the amount of the borrowing, and the maturity date, if any, of the borrowing;

(3) The security, if any, provided by the cash management program for repayment of deposits into the cash management program and the security required, if any, by the cash management program in support of borrowings from the program; and

(4) The monthly balance of the cash management program.

(c) The oil pipeline company must maintain current and up-to-date copies of the documents authorizing the establishment of the cash management program including the following:

(1) The duties and responsibilities of the administrator and the oil pipeline company in the cash management program;

(2) The restrictions on deposits or borrowings by oil pipeline companies in the cash management program;

(3) The interest rate, including the method used to determine the interest earning rates and interest borrowing rates for deposits into and borrowings from the program; and

(4) The method used to allocate interest income and expenses among oil pipeline companies in the program.

This account shall include amounts receivable due and accrued from other than affiliates which are subject to settlement within one year from date of the balance sheet. This includes items such as revenue for services rendered, material furnished, rent, accounts of officers and employees, miscellaneous accounts with others.

This account shall be credited with amounts provided for losses on notes and accounts receivable which may become uncollectible, and also with collections on accounts previously charged hereto. This account shall be charged with any amounts which have been found to be impractical of collection.

(a) This account shall include the amount of interest due and accrued as of the date of the balance sheet on all interest-bearing obligations held by the carrier. This account shall also include the amount of dividends declared on stocks owned.

(b) Interest and dividends receivable from affiliated companies or on the carrier's own securities shall not be included in this account.

(a) This account shall include the cost of oil purchased and the value of oil acquired through tariff allowances and operating gains. Amounts paid preceding carriers for transportation, customs duties, or similar charges shall be charged to account 230, Allowance Oil Revenue. Additions to inventory from tariff allowances shall be credited to revenue at current value. Additions resulting from operating gains shall be credited against operating oil losses and shortages.

(b) The cost or value of oil owned by the carrier and used to maintain lines and working tanks in condition for transportation operations shall be included in account 33, Operating Oil Supply.

(a) This account shall include the cost, including sales, use and excise taxes and transportation costs to point of delivery, less purchase and trade discounts, of all unapplied material and supplies, such as line pipe, line pipe fittings, fuel, tools, and other pipeline supplies. The value of items being manufactured by the carrier and the fair value of salvaged material shall also be included herein.

(b) Carriers shall take annual inventories of material and supplies and shall make the adjustments necessary to reconcile the books to the inventory figures. To the extent practicable, adjustments shall be made directly to the same accounts to which such material and supplies were charged during the period. Differences that cannot be directly allocated shall be equitably apportioned among the accounts to which material was charged since the last inventory.

This account shall include the amount of expenses paid in advance of accrual such as insurance, rent, and taxes, the benefits of which are to be realized in subsequent periods. Monthly transfers shall be made to the appropriate expense or other accounts for the expired portion of the prepayments applicable to that month.

This account shall include such items as estimated tax refunds receivable, legally enforceable, balances due on subscriptions to capital stock, temporary guaranty and other deposits, and all other current assets due within one year which are not includible in the other current asset accounts.

(a) This account shall include the portion of deferred income tax assets and liabilities relating to current assets and liabilities, when the balance is a net debit.

(b) A net credit balance shall be included in Account 59, Deferred income tax liabilities.

This account shall include the cost of investments in securities (other than securities held in special funds) and investment advances made to affiliated companies. Separate records shall be maintained to show the securities pledged and the following classes of investments in each affiliated company:

(a) Stocks.

(b) Bonds.

(c) Other secured obligations.

(d) Unsecured notes.

(e) Investment advances.

This account shall include the cost of investments in securities of (other than securities held in special funds) and advances made to other than affiliated companies. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. Separate records shall be maintained to show the securities pledged and the following classes of investments in each nonaffiliated company:

(a) Stocks.

(b) Bonds.

(c) Other secured obligations.

(d) Unsecured notes.

(e) Investment advances.

(a) This account shall include cash and cost of investments in securities and other assets, trusteed or otherwise restricted, that have been segregated in distinct funds for purposes of redeeming outstanding obligations; purchasing or replacing assets; paying pensions, relief, hospitalization, and other similar items. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. The cash value of life insurance policies on the lives of employees and officers to the extent that the carrier is the beneficiary of such policies shall also be included in this account. Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for each distinct fund.

(b) Securities issued or assumed by the accounting company shall be recorded at par or stated value.

(c) This account shall include compensating balances (see Definition 34) under an agreement which legally restricts the use of such funds and which constitute support for long-term borrowing arrangements.

This account shall include the cost of tangible property used in carrier service, or held for such use within a reasonable time under a definite plan for pipeline operations. Separate primary accounts are prescribed for each class of carrier property.

This account shall be credited with amounts charged to operating expenses or other accounts representing the loss in service value of depreciable carrier property. The service value of depreciable property retired shall be charged to this account. It shall also include other entries as may be authorized by the Commission. Detail of this account shall be maintained by primary property accounts. Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for the amount of accrued cost of removal other than legal obligations for the retirement of property recorded in account 31, Accrued depreciation-Carrier property.

This account shall be credited with amounts charged to operating expenses or other accounts representing the loss in service value of carrier property subject to amortization accounting as authorized by the Commission. Upon the retirement of property subject to amortization this account shall be charged with the amount included herein applicable to the specific property at the time the property is retired. Subsidiary records shall be maintained for each group of property items under a separate amortization authorization.

This account shall include the cost of oil purchased and the value of oil added through tariff allowances and operating gains which is used to maintain lines and tanks in working condition. Additions to operating supply from tariff allowances shall be credited to revenue at current value. Additions resulting from operating gains shall be credited against operating oil losses and shortages.

This account shall include the cost of tangible property not used in carrier pipeline operations. This account shall also include, amounts recorded for asset retirement costs associated with noncarrier property.

This account shall be credited with amounts charged to income, representing the loss in service value of depreciable noncarrier property.

This account shall include the cost of intangible assets such as organizing the carrier, patents, permits, franchises, and goodwill. Organization costs include the legal expense, taxes, fees, stationery and printing, original capital stock expense and costs of economic feasibility studies made prior to initial operation of the carrier. Separate subsidiary records shall be maintained for each class of intangible asset.

This account shall be credited with the amounts charged to operating expenses or income representing the expired cost of intangible property. When the period of benefit of intangible property is fully expired, or assets are retired to which the intangible relates, this account shall be charged with the amount herein applicable to the specific property.

This account shall include such items as accounts receivable, utility deposits, guaranty deposits and other similar assets which are not expected to be realized or returned to the carrier within one year from date of the balance sheet. The estimated net salvage value of retired carrier property held without being dismantled shall be included in this account.

This account shall include items that cannot be disposed of until further information is received and items of a deferred nature, not provided for elsewhere, to be amortized to expense or other accounts in future periods. This includes such items as engineering surveys and studies and debt expense.

This account shall include the amount of deferred taxes determined in accordance with instruction 1-12 and the text of Account 64, Accumulated deferred income tax liabilities, when the balance is a net debit.

This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument assets not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 640, miscellaneous income, shall be credited or debited as appropriate with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

(a) This account shall include the amounts paid for derivative instruments, and the change in the fair value of derivative instrument assets, designated by the utility as cash flow or fair value hedges.

(b) When a carrier designates a derivative instrument asset as a cash flow hedge, it will record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to account 77, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

(c) When a carrier designates a derivative instrument as a fair value hedge, it shall record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

This account shall include outstanding obligations in the form of notes, and other similar evidences of indebtedness payable on demand or within one year from the date of issue except those payable to affiliated companies.

This account shall include amounts payable due and accrued to affiliated companies (except interest and dividends) subject to settlement within one year from date of the balance sheet, and for which arrangements for long-term refinancing have not been made (See Note following account 50, "Notes Payable"). This includes payables for items such as services and material received, rent, advances and notes.

This account shall include amounts payable due and accrued (except those to affiliated companies) subject to settlement within one year from the date of the balance sheet. This includes payables for items such as joint revenue, material and supplies, services received, rents, claims, taxes collected from employees and others for account of taxing entities, and other similar items.

This account shall include salaries and wages payable due and accrued including vacation pay and unclaimed salaries and wages as of the balance sheet date. Unclaimed salaries and wages outstanding for more than one year may be written off to income unless the amount unclaimed escheats to the state.

This account shall include interest accrued or payable on all obligations.

This account shall include the amount of dividends (other than stock dividends) declared but unpaid as of the date of the balance sheet.

This account shall include all Federal, state, and local taxes (except taxes withheld from employees) accrued and payable, estimated if necessary, as of the balance sheet date. Prepaid taxes shall be shown as current assets in account 18, Prepayments. Subsidiary records shall be maintained to allow analyses of this account by matured and unmatured taxes and by type of tax and taxing entity.

This account shall include the amount of long-term debt which will mature and become payable within one year from date of the balance sheet for which arrangements for long-term refinancing have not been made (See note following account 50, "Notes Payable").

This account shall include all other current liabilities not provided for elsewhere that are payable within one year from date of balance sheet.

(a) This account shall include the portion of deferred income tax assets and liabilities relating to current assets and liabilities, when the balance is a net credit.

(b) A net debit balance shall be included in Account 19-5, Deferred income tax assets.

This account shall include the total par value of the carrier's outstanding obligations maturing more than one year from the date of the balance sheet, including obligations due within one year which are expected to be refinanced on a long-term basis (See note following account 52, "Accounts payable"). This account shall be divided to show the face value of (1) debt issued and actually outstanding, and (2) debt "nominally issued" and "nominally outstanding". These accounts shall be further divided by the following classes of debt: mortgage bonds, collateral trusts, income bonds, miscellaneous obligations and nonnegotiable debt to affiliated companies.

This account shall include the premium received and not yet amortized on the issuance of long-term debt. The amount of premium received on each issue of bonds, mortgages, notes, and other long-term debt shall be amortized over the life of the debt by credit to interest expense.

This account shall include the amount of discount on long-term debt, and the amount of interest expressly provided for and included in the face amount of obligations issued or assumed and not amortized as of the balance sheet date. The amount of discount or interest applicable to each issue of debt obligation shall be amortized over the life of the respective debt by charge to interest expense.

(a) This account shall include such items as deferred revenue from rents or leases that will not be realizable as income within one year, and the liability for amounts contributed by employees or others for pensions, savings, and similar items. This account shall also include the amount accrued for pensions in which the employees have a vested right and which are administered by the carrier.

(a) This account shall be credited (charged) with amounts concurrently charged (credited) to account 671, Provision for deferred taxes and account 696, Provision for deferred taxes-extraordinary items, representing the net tax effect of changes in material temporary differences (see definition 30(e)) during the current accounting period.

(b) This account shall be credited with the amount of investment tax credit utilized in the current year for income tax purposes but deferred for accounting purposes (see instruction 1-12).

(c) This account shall be concurrently debited with amounts credited to account 671, Provision for deferred taxes representing amortization of amounts for investment tax credits deferred in prior accounting periods.

(d) This account shall be maintained in such a manner as to show separately: (1) The balance of deferred income taxes and deferred investment tax credit separately as of the beginning and as of the end of each year entries are made affecting the account balance, (2) the current years net credit or charges applicable to temporary differences and deferred investment tax credits.

This account shall include the change in the fair value of all derivative instrument liabilities not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. Account 660, miscellaneous income charges, shall be debited or credited as appropriate with the corresponding amount of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument.

(a) This account shall include the change in the fair value of derivative instrument liabilities designated by the carrier as cash flow or fair value hedges.

(b) A carrier shall record the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument liability related to a cash flow hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to account 77, accumulated other comprehensive income, with the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

(c) A carrier shall record the change in the fair of a derivative instrument liability related to a fair value hedge in this account, with a concurrent charge to a subaccount of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair value hedge shall be charged to the same income or expense account that will be used when the hedged item enters into the determination of net income.

(a) This account shall include liabilities arising from the recognition of asset retirement obligations. The carrier shall credit account 67, Asset retirement obligations, for the liabilities for asset retirement obligations and charge the appropriate carrier property accounts or noncarrier property accounts to record the related asset retirement costs.

(b) This account shall also include the period to period changes for the accretion of the liabilities in account 67, Asset retirement obligations. The carrier shall charge the accretion expense to account 591, Accretion expense, for carrier property, and account 620, Income (net) from noncarrier property, for noncarrier property, as appropriate, and credit account 67, Asset retirement obligations.

(c) This account shall be debited with amounts paid to settle the asset retirement obligations recorded herein.

(d) The utility shall clear from this account any gains or losses resulting from the settlement of asset retirement obligations in accordance with the instructions prescribed in General Instruction 1-19.

(a) This account shall include the par value of par value stock, stated value of no-par stock, and the amount received for no-par stock without stated value, which have been issued to bona fide purchasers and have not been reacquired and cancelled, also shares of stock nominally issued. When other than cash is received for no-par value stock, the fair market value of the consideration shall be entered in this account.

(b) This account shall be divided so as to show separately each class of stock issued, subdivided between (1) issued and outstanding, and (2) nominally issued and nominally outstanding.

(c) When an issue of capital stock or any part thereof is reacquired, either by purchase or donation, and is retired or cancelled, the par value shall be charged to this account. Any excess of reacquisition cost over par value shall be allocated between account 73, Additional Paid-in-Capital and 720, Other Debits to Retained Income. Any excess of par value over reacquisition cost shall be credited to account 73, Additional Paid-in-Capital.

(d) When an issue of capital stock or any part thereof is reacquired, either by purchase or donation, and is not retired or cancelled, nor properly includible in sinking or other funds, the reacquisition cost shall be charged to account 76, Treasury Stock.

(e) When treasury stock is resold, account 76, Treasury Stock, shall be credited with the cost paid for it. Gains shall be credited to account 73, Additional Paid-in-Capital. Losses shall be charged to account 73, Additional Paid-in-Capital to the extent that previous net gains from sales or retirements of the same class of stock are included therein; otherwise, to account 720, Other Debits to Retained Income.

This account shall include the excess of the actual cash value of the consideration received at the time of the original sale over the par or stated value of the stock issued.

This account shall include the full amount of the par value, stated value, or price agreed upon for no-par stock which has been subscribed under a legally binding purchase agreement. The difference between the par value or stated value, plus any premiums or the amount agreed upon for no-par stock, and the down payment or installments received, shall be recorded as a current asset in account 19, Other Current Assets. Appropriate subaccounts shall be kept to record separately the transactions for each class and series of stock involved.

This account shall include gains from purchase and resale of reacquired stock. Credits attributable to reductions in the par or stated value of capital stock may be included in this account only when approved by the Commission. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each class and series of stock. Also include herein contributions to capital made by stockholders and others.

This account shall include retained income which has been appropriated and set aside under contractual or legal requirements and for other specific purposes, such as the retirement of bonded indebtedness, contingencies, redemption of preferred capital stock; fire losses; plant replacement and additions; miscellaneous employee benefits; and similar items. Appropriations shall be released when their respective purposes have been served. Separate subaccounts shall be maintained for each specific purpose for which retained income is appropriated.

(a) This account shall include retained income which has not been appropriated or set aside for specific purposes. There shall be no transfers to or from account 73, Additional Paid-in Capital, to this account unless so authorized by the Commission.

(b) The balance of accounts 700 to 750, inclusive, shall be closed to this account at the end of each calendar year.

(a) This account shall include in subdivisions for each class the reacquisition cost of capital stock which has been actually issued or assumed by the carrier, then reacquired, and is neither retired nor cancelled, nor properly includible in sinking or other funds.

(b) This account shall be maintained to reflect separately securities pledged or unpledged.

(c) This account shall be shown on the Balance Sheet as a deduction in arriving at Stockholders' Equity.

(a) This account shall include revenues, expenses, gains, and losses that are properly includable in other comprehensive income during the period. Examples of other comprehensive income include foreign currency items, minimum pension liability adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities, and cash flow hedges. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be maintained so that the utility can furnish the amount of other comprehensive income for each item included in this account.

(b) This account shall also be debited or credited, as appropriate, with amounts of accumulated other comprehensive income that have been included in the determination of net income during the period and in accumulated other comprehensive income in prior periods. Separate records for each category of items shall be maintained to identify the amount of the reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings made during the period.

The following table lists the prescribed primary property accounts and indicates those accounts which contain similar items of property for which a single text is provided. The accounts are to be kept separately for crude oil lines and for product lines.

(a) This account shall include the cost of land held in fee and used in pipeline operations. Land not used in carrier service shall be recorded in account 34, Noncarrier Property. Irregular parcels of land without commercial value acquired with rights of way shall not be transferred to account 34 solely to make right of way boundaries regular.

(b) The cost of land and buildings acquired together shall be equitably separated and recorded. When land is acquired with buildings, structures, or other encumbrances that must be removed before the land is usable, demolition cost, less salvage, shall be added to the book cost of the land. Net proceeds from the sale of timber, minerals and improvements which were part of the land cost when purchased by the carrier, shall be credited to this account up to the amount of the purchase price allocated as their cost. Any excess shall be credited to account 640, Miscellaneous Income.

(c) Costs of filing, clearing, grading or leveling land, when such work is not directly associated with construction or a definite plan for construction, shall be charged to this account.

(d) All direct or incidental costs associated with the acquisition of the land and any taxes and public assessments assumed at the time of purchase, shall be included in this account.

(e) Special assessments for public improvements and also costs borne by the carrier for public improvements constructed by it shall be included in this account.

This account shall include the cost of obtaining rights of way used in pipeline operations. Periodic rents paid for the use of a right of way shall be charged to operating rents. Costs of filling, clearing, grading or leveling of a right of way when such work is not directly associated with construction or a definite plan for construction, shall be charged to this account.

This account shall include the cost of all line pipe actually laid in pipe lines devoted to transportation service.

This account shall include the cost of the line pipe fittings, including manifolds, used in pipe lines devoted to transportation service.

(a) This account shall include all the costs of constructing pipe lines except the cost of line pipe and fittings provided for in accounts 103, 153, Line Pipe, and 104, 154, Line Pipe Fittings.

(b) Includible shall be the cost of labor and materials such as casing and vent pipe, pipe coatings of all kinds, river weights, support structures, sand bags, valve boxes, cathodic protection devices, mile posts, right-of-way markers, excavating and backfilling, pipeline pits, and the cost of damages paid for the destruction of crops, timber, and other property during construction. The cost of reopening the trenches for repairs, or installation of casing, coating or cathodic protection, and the necessary backfilling shall be charged to maintenance expense.

This account shall include the cost of all buildings including the foundations, fixtures, and appurtenances thereto. This includes such items as architects' fees, sidewalks, driveways, fences, permanent water rights, grading and preparing grounds before and after construction, utility lines and other service piping. Cost of restoring grounds after repair work shall be charged to maintenance expense.

This account shall include the cost of boilers, including accessories and attachments such as injectors, water gages, steam gages and fittings, and the cost of special boiler foundations and installations.

This account shall include the cost of engines, motors, pumps, and all other pumping equipment, and the cost of special foundations and installation.

This account shall include the cost of machine tools and machinery, including the cost of their special foundations and installation.

This account shall include the cost of all station equipment not provided for elsewhere, such as electric light, gas, and refrigeration equipment, manifolds, and miscellaneous equipment and fittings. It shall also include the carrier's investment in tracks if located at and used in connection with a station.

This account shall include the cost of oil tanks, including grades, roofs, fire banks, steam coils, swing pipes, inlet valves, and outlet valves.

This account shall include the cost of facilities for receiving or delivering oil and oil products from or to water carriers, railroads, motor carriers, and others, such as delivery racks, wharves (including buildings thereon), docks, and slips, including piling, pile protection, cribs, cofferdams, walls, and other necessary devices and apparatus for the operation or protection of such property. It shall also include the cost of engines, pumps, and boilers at loading racks and on wharves, the construction of oil-pipe lines between oil tanks and delivery facilities, and the carrier's investment in tracks if located at and used in connection with delivery facilities.

This account shall include the cost of telegraph, wireless, telephone, and radio equipment.

This account shall include the cost of all office furniture, equipment and fixtures, including such items as safes, desks, chairs, typewriters, accounting machines, cabinets, file cabinets, floor coverings, portable air conditioners, drinking fountains, and other similar items that are not an integral part of a building.

This account shall include the cost of motor and other vehicles, motor and other portable work equipment, garage equipment, and portable tools and machines such as drills, hoists, jacks, power mowers, stocks and dies, laying tongs, vises, air compressors, welding machines, valve reseating machines, pipe-cleaning machines, and concrete mixers, not specifically provided for in other accounts.

This account shall include the cost of property used in pipeline operations not provided for elsewhere.

This account shall include asset retirement costs on plans included in carrier property.

This account shall include the cost of carrier property under construction and the cost of land acquired for such construction as of the date of the balance sheet. It includes interest and taxes during construction, material and supplies delivered to the construction site, and other expenditures that will eventually be part of the cost of the completed property. When construction work is completed, the cost included in this account shall be transferred to the appropriate primary property accounts. Subsidiary records shall be maintained for each construction project. When part of a project under construction is completed and put into service, the costs applicable to that portion shall be transferred to the appropriate property account.

This account shall include revenues on the basis of tariff charges for the gathering or collection of crude oil, oil products and other commodities.

This account shall include revenues on the basis of tariff charges for trunk line transportation of crude oil, oil products or other commodities.

This account shall include revenues on the basis of tariff charges for receiving, delivering, unloading and loading fees at carrier terminal and delivery facilities.

(a) This account shall include the current value of oil acquired through tariff allowances taken into inventory or retained in the line for operating oil supply, and the selling price of such oil sold not previously recorded in inventory or operating oil supply.

(b) Profits and losses on sales of allowance oil from inventory or operating supply shall be included in this account.

This account shall include revenues on the basis of tariff charges for the storage of oil; also demurrage charges incident to failure of consignees to receive shipments promptly.

This account shall include the revenues from renting or subrenting property, the cost of which is included in the accounts for investment in carrier property.

This account shall include revenues incidental to carrier operations and not includible in other revenue accounts.

This account shall include the salaries and wages (including pay for holidays, vacations, sick leave and similar payroll disbursements) of supervisory and other personnel directly engaged in transportation operations and the maintenance and repair of transportation property.

This account shall include the cost of materials applied in the repair and maintenance of transportation property. The salvage value of materials recovered in maintenance work shall be credited to this account. This account shall also include the cost of supplies consumed and expended in operations and in support of the maintenance activity.

This account shall include the cost of operating and maintenance services provided by other than company forces under contract, agreement, and other arrangement. The cost of service performed by affiliated companies shall be segregated within the account.

This account shall include the cost of fuel and power consumed and expended in operations. The cost of normal utilities services shall be included herein when such costs are directly allocable to operations.

(a) This account shall include the cost of settlements with shippers for oil lost or undelivered due to operating causes during the course of transportation.

(b) The value of oil gains from operations shall be credited to this account at current value at time of determination of gain and charged to oil inventory or operating supply.

This account shall include the cost of renting property used in the operations and maintenance of carrier transportation service, such as complete pipeline or segment thereof, office space, land and buildings, and other equipment and facilities.

This account shall include the expenses of aircraft, vehicles, and work equipment used in support of operations and maintenance activities; travel, lodging, meals, memberships, and other expenses of operating and maintenance employees; and other related operating and maintenance expenses that are not defined or classified in other accounts.

This account shall include the salaries and wages (including pay for holidays, vacations, sick leave, and similar payroll disbursements) of executives and general officers, general office personnel, and of other employees whose wages cannot be directly allocated to operations or maintenance.

This account shall include the cost of materials and supplies consumed and expended for administration and general services.

This account shall include the cost of management and general and administrative services provided by other than company forces under contract, agreement or other arrangement. The cost of services performed by affiliated companies shall be segregated within the account.

This account shall include the cost of renting property used in the administration and general operations of carrier transportation service, such as complete pipeline or segment thereof, office space, land and buildings, and other equipment and facilities.

This account shall include charges for the depreciation and amortization of transportation property. Charges for the amortization of fixed term intangibles relating to common carrier operations shall also be included herein.

This account shall include charges for the depreciation of asset retirement costs related to transportation property.

This account shall include the cost to the carrier of annuities, pensions, and benefits for active or retired employees, their beneficiaries or designees. Contributions to health or welfare funds or payment for similar benefits to or on behalf of employees shall be included herein. Premiums, to the extent borne by the carrier, for group life, health, accident and other beneficial insurance for employees shall also be included in this account.

(a) This account shall include the cost of commercial insurance to protect the carrier against losses and damages in its pipeline operations such as injuries to or deaths of employees and other persons, damages to or destruction of carrier property or the property of others, and other business risks and hazards pertaining to transportation operations.

(b) The carrier shall not accrue amounts for the purpose of estimating risk of loss or damage to its property from fire, theft, or similar loss contingencies not covered by commercial insurance.

(a) This account shall include the amount of expense sustained by the carrier on account of loss or damage to oil or other commodity entrusted to it for transportation or storage resulting from fire, flood, or other casualty.

(b) Expenses on account of damage and destruction to property of others from all causes; and the expense of repairing damages to transportation property caused by casualty shall also be included herein.

(c) This account shall also include expenses incurred on account of injury to or death of employees or other persons including related medical, hospital and funeral expenses.

(a) This account shall include accruals for taxes of all kinds, excepting income taxes (see definition 30(a)), relating to carrier property, operations, privileges and licenses.

(b) The detail of this account shall show separately the amounts levied by the Federal government and by each state.

This account shall include the cost of expenses expended for administrative and general services including, the expenses of aircraft, vehicles, and work equipment used for general purposes; travel, lodging, meals, memberships, and other expenses of general employees and officers; utilities services; and all other incidental general expenses not defined or classified in other accounts.

This account shall be charged for accretion expense on the liabilities associated with asset retirement obligations included in account 67, Asset retirement obligations. The carrier shall record in this account the settlement amounts for asset retirement obligations related to carrier property in accordance with the accounting prescribed in General Instruction 1-19.
