
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter Q - Accounts Under the Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 352 - UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS PRESCRIBED FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### See

The carrier shall record in this account gains or losses resulting from the settlement amounts for asset retirement obligations related to carrier property plant. (General Instruction 1-19).

This account shall include the total revenues included in the operating revenue accounts for the calendar year.

(a) This account shall include all noncarrier revenues and expenses from property carried in account 34, Noncarrier Property.

(b) All expenses related to noncarrier property, such as operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation, taxes (except Federal income taxes) and similar expenses, are includible herein.

(a) This account shall include interest accruing to the carrier on securities of others, loans, notes and advances, deposits, and all other interest bearing assets. Also include the amount of amortized premium or discount related to such assets.

(b) This account shall also include the amount of dividends declared on stocks of others owned by the carrier.

(c) Income shall not be included in this account unless receipt thereof is reasonably assured.

(a) This account shall include income not provided for elsewhere creditable to income accounts for the current year, such as unclaimed wages written off, profit on sales of land and noncarrier, property, profit on sales of investment securities, profit from company bonds reacquired, and decreases in the valuation allowance (contained within account 11) for the marketable equity securities included in current assets.

(b) Gains from extinguishment of debt shall be aggregated and, if material, credited to account 680, Extraordinary Items, upon approval by the Commission.

Included in this account shall be material items unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence, but not both, accounted for in the current year in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, upon approval by the Commission.

This account shall include the total expenses included in the operating expense accounts for the calendar year.

This account shall include interest expense on all classes of debt except interest pertaining to construction of property. This account shall also include the amortization of long-term debt premium and discount. Charges for interest on carrier debt obligations previously issued and now held by or for the carrier shall not be recorded in this account.

(a) This account shall include income charges not provided for elsewhere chargeable to income accounts for the current year, such as amortization of debt expense, losses on sale or disposition of land and noncarrier property, losses on sales or reductions in value of investment securities (including increases in the valuation allowance within account 11 for the marketable equity securities included in current assets), bad debts, losses on company bonds reacquired, taxes (other than Federal income taxes) on investment securities, trust management expenses, amortization of intangibles which are not restricted to a fixed term, and the difference between the premium and the added cash surrender value of life insurance on officers and employees when the carrier is beneficiary.

(b) Losses from extinguishment of debt shall be aggregated and, if material, charged to account 680, Extraordinary Items, upon approval by the Commission.

Included in this account shall be material items unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence, but not both, accounted for in the current year in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, upon approval by the Commission.

(a) This account shall be debited with the monthly accruals for all income taxes which are estimated to be payable and which are applicable to ordinary income (see instruction 1-12). See the texts of account 695, Income Taxes on Extraordinary Items, account 710, Other Credits to Retained Income, and account 720, Other Debits to Retained Income, for recording other income tax consequences.

(b) Details pertaining to the tax consequences of other unusual and significant items, and also cases where tax consequences are disproportionate to related amounts included in income accounts, shall be submitted to the Commission for consideration and decision as to proper accounting.

(a) This account shall include the net tax effect of changes in material temporary timing differences (see definition 30(e)) during the current accounting period, and the future tax benefits of loss carryforwards recognized in accordance with instruction 1-12(c).

(b) This account shall include credits for the amortization of the investment tax credit if the carrier elected to use the deferred method of accounting for the investment tax credit. (See instruction 1-12(d)).

This account shall include the results of operations of a segment of a business (see definition 32(a)), after giving effect to income tax consequences that has been or will be discontinued in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, upon approval by the Commission.

This account shall include the gain or loss from the disposal of a segment of a business, after giving effect to income tax consequences, in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, upon approval by the Commission.

(a) This account shall include extraordinary items accounted for during the current accounting year in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, upon submission of a letter from the carrier's independent accountants, approving or otherwise commenting on the item and upon approval by the Commission.

(b) This account shall be maintained in a manner sufficient to identify the nature and gross amount of each debit and credit.

(c) Federal income tax consequences of charges and credits to this account shall be recorded in account 695, Income Taxes on Extraordinary Items, or account 696. Provision for Deferred Taxes-Extraordinary Items, as applicable.

This account shall include the estimated income tax consequences (debit or credit) assignable to the aggregate of items of both taxable income and deductions from taxable income which for accounting purposes are classified extraordinary, and are recorded in account 680, Extraordinary Items (Net). The tax effect of any temporary differences caused by recognizing an item in the account provided for extraordinary items shall be included in account 696, Provision for Deferred Taxes-Extraordinary Items.

This account shall include the deferred tax expense or benefit related to temporary differences applicable to items of revenue or expense included in account 680, Extraordinary Items (Net) (See instruction 1-12).

This account shall include the cumulative effect of changing to a new accounting principle, after giving effect to income tax consequences, in accordance with instruction 1-6, upon approval by the Commission.

This account shall include net income (or deficit) for the calendar year.

This account shall include adjustments after giving income tax effect, in accordance with the text of instruction 1-6, to the balance in the retained income account at the beginning of the calendar year, upon approval by the Commission.

This account shall include other credit adjustments, net of assigned Federal income taxes, not provided for elsewhere in this system but only after such inclusion has been authorized by the Commission.

This account shall include losses from resale of reacquired capital stock, and charges which reduce or write off discount on capital stock issued by the company, but only to the extent that such charges exceed credit balances in account 73, Additional Paid-In Capital, for shares reacquired. This account shall also include other debit adjustments, net of assigned Federal income taxes, not provided for elsewhere in this system of accounts, but only after such inclusion has been authorized by the Commission.

This account shall include appropriations made from retained income during the calendar year. Appropriations charged to this account shall be credited to account 74, Appropriated Retained Income.

This account shall include the amount of dividends declared during the calendar year on all classes of outstanding capital stock. Stock reacquired and owned by the carrier shall not be subject to dividends. Subsidiary records shall be kept to show separately the dividends declared on each type and class of capital stock. When dividends are paid in other than money, complete detail of each transaction shall be maintained.
