
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter R - Approved Forms, Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 356 - PRESERVATION OF RECORDS FOR OIL PIPELINE COMPANIES
##### ยง 356.2 General instructions.
###### Scope of this part.

(a)(1) The regulations in this part apply to all books of account and other records prepared by or on behalf of the oil pipeline companies.

(2) The regulations in this part must not be construed as excusing compliance with other lawful requirements of any other governmental body, Federal or State, prescribing other record keeping requirements or for preservation of records longer than those prescribed in this part.

(3) To the extent that any Commission regulations may provide for a different retention period, the records should be retained for the longer of the retention periods.

(4) Unless otherwise specified in the schedule in ยง 356.3, duplicate copies of records may be destroyed at any time. Provided, however, that such duplicate copies must not contain significant information not shown on the originals.

(5) Records other than those listed in the schedule may be destroyed at the option of the oil pipeline company. Provided, however, that records which are used in lieu of those listed must be preserved for the periods prescribed for the records used for substantially similar purposes and that retention of records pertaining to added services, functions, plant, etc., the establishment of which cannot be presently foreseen, must conform to the principles embodied herein.

(6) Notwithstanding the provision of the records retention schedule, the Commission may, upon request of the oil pipeline company, authorize shorter retention periods for any records listed in ยง 356.3. The oil pipeline companies must show that the longer retention periods are no longer necessary or appropriate to protect the public interest, investors, or consumers. A waiver from any provision of these regulations may be made by the Commission upon its own initiative or upon submission of a written request by the company. Each request for waiver must demonstrate that unusual circumstances warrant a departure from prescribed retention periods, procedures, or techniques, or that compliance with such prescribed requirements would impose an unreasonable burden on the company.
