
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter R - Approved Forms, Interstate Commerce Act
#### PART 357 - ANNUAL SPECIAL OR PERIODIC REPORTS: CARRIERS SUBJECT TO PART I OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE ACT
##### ยง 357.2 FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies.
###### Who must file.

(a)(1) Each pipeline carrier subject to the provisions of section 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues has been $500,000 or more for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file with the Commission copies of FERC Form No. 6, "Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies," pursuant to the General Instructions set out in that form. Newly established entities must use projected data to determine whether FERC Form No. 6 must be filed.

(2) Oil pipeline carriers exempt from filing Form No. 6 whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues have been more than $350,000 but less than $500,000 for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file pages 301, "Operating Revenue Accounts (Account 600)," and 700, "Annual Cost of Service Based Analysis Schedule," of FERC Form No. 6. When submitting pages 301 and 700, each exempt oil pipeline carrier must include page 1 of Form No. 6, the Identification and Attestation schedules.

(3) Oil pipeline carriers exempt from filing Form No. 6 and pages 301 and whose annual jurisdictional operating revenues were $350,000 or less for each of the three previous calendar years must prepare and file page 700, "Annual Cost of Service Based Analysis Schedule," of FERC Form No. 6. When submitting page 700, each exempt oil pipeline carrier must include page 1 of Form No. 6, the Identification and Attestation schedules.
