
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart D - Application for Preliminary Permit, License or Exemption: General Provisions
###### § 4.39 Specifications for maps and drawings.

(a) Full-sized prints of maps and drawings must be on sheets no smaller than 22 by 34 inches and no larger than 24 by 36 inches. A space five inches high by seven inches wide must be provided in the lower right hand corner of each sheet. The upper half of this space must bear the title, numerical and graphical scale, and other pertinent information concerning the map or drawing. The lower half of the space must be left clear. Exhibit G drawings must be stamped by a registered land surveyor. If the drawing size specified in this paragraph limits the scale of structural drawings (exhibit F drawings) described in paragraph (c) of this section, a smaller scale may be used for those drawings. Potential applicants or licensees may be required to file maps or drawings in electronic format as directed by the Commission.

(b) Each map must have a scale in full-sized prints no smaller than one inch equals 0.5 miles for transmission lines, roads, and similar linear features and no smaller than one inch equals 1,000 feet for other project features, including the project boundary. Where maps at this scale do not show sufficient detail, large scale maps may be required. Each map must have:

(1) True and magnetic meridians;

(2) State, county, and town lines; and

(3) Boundaries of public lands and reservations of the United States [see 16 U.S.C. 796 (1) and (2)], if any. If a public land survey is available, the maps must show all lines of that survey crossing the project area and all official subdivisions of sections for the public lands and reservations, including lots and irregular tracts, as designated on the official plats of survey that may be obtained from the Bureau of Land Management, Washington, DC, or examined in the local land survey office; to the extent that a public land survey is not available for public lands and reservations of the United States, the maps must show the protractions of townships and section lines, which, if possible, must be those recognized by the Federal agency administering those lands.

(c) Drawings depicting details of project structures must have a scale in full-sized prints no smaller than:

(1) One inch equals 50 feet for plans, elevations, and profiles; and

(2) One inch equals 10 feet for sections.

(d) Each map or drawing must be drawn and lettered to be legible when it is reduced to a print that is 11 inches on its shorter side. Following notification to the applicant that the application has been accepted for filing [see § 4.32(d)], prints reduced to that size must be bound in each copy of the application which is required to be submitted to the Commission or provided to any person, agency, or other entity.

(e) The maps and drawings showing project location information and details of project structures must be filed in accordance with the Commission's instructions on submission of privileged materials and Critical Energy Infrastructure Information in §§ 388.112 and 388.113 of this chapter.
