
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 366 - BOOKS AND RECORDS
##### Subpart A - Definitions and Provisions Under PUHCA 2005, the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act
###### § 366.4 FERC-65, notification of holding company status, FERC-65A, exemption notification, and FERC-65B, waiver notification.
####### Notification of holding company status.

(a)(1) Persons that meet the definition of a holding company as provided by § 366.1 as of February 8, 2006 shall notify the Commission of their status as a holding company no later than June 15, 2006. Holding companies formed after February 8, 2006 shall notify the Commission of their status as a holding company, no later than the later of June 15, 2006 or 30 days after they become holding companies.

(2) The notification required pursuant to § 366.4(a)(1) shall be made by submitting FERC-65 (notification of holding company status), which shall contain the following: The identity of the holding company and of the public utilities and natural gas companies in the holding company system; the identity of service companies, including special-purpose subsidiaries providing non-power goods and services; the identity of all affiliates and subsidiaries; and their corporate relationship to each other. This filing will be for informational purposes and will not be noticed in thebut will be available on the Commission's Web site. FERC-65 must be subscribed, consistent with § 385.2005(a) of this chapter, but need not be verified.

(3) Notwithstanding § 366.4(a)(1) and (2), holding companies that are exempt holding companies pursuant to § 366.3(a) are not required to notify the Commission of their status or to submit FERC-65 (notification of holding company status).
