
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 366 - BOOKS AND RECORDS
##### Subpart A - Definitions and Provisions Under PUHCA 2005, the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act
###### § 366.4 FERC-65, notification of holding company status, FERC-65A, exemption notification, and FERC-65B, waiver notification.
####### FERC-65A (exemption notification) and petitions for exemption.

(b)(1) Persons who, pursuant to § 366.3(b)(2), seek exemption from the requirements of § 366.2 and the accounting, record-retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 366.21, 366.22, and 366.23, may seek such exemption by filing FERC-65A (exemption notification); FERC-65A must be subscribed, consistent with § 385.2005(a) of this chapter, but need not be verified. These filings will be noticed in the; persons who file FERC-65A must include a form of notice suitable for publication in thein accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this chapter. Persons who file FERC-65A in good faith shall be deemed to have a temporary exemption upon filing. If the Commission has taken no action within 60 days after the date of filing FERC-65A, the exemption shall be deemed to have been granted. The Commission may toll the 60-day period to request additional information or for further consideration of the request; in such case, the temporary exemption will remain in effect until such time as the Commission has determined whether to grant or deny the exemption. Authority to toll the 60-day period is delegated to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.

(2) Notwithstanding § 366.4(b)(1), persons that are exempt holding companies pursuant to § 366.3(a) are not required to file FERC-65A (exemption notification).

(3) Persons that do not qualify for exemption pursuant to § 366.3(b)(2) may seek an individual exemption from this subchapter. They may not do so by means of filing FERC-65A and instead must file a petition for declaratory order as required under § 366.3(d). Such petitions will be noticed in thepersons that file a petition must include a form of notice suitable for publication in thein accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this chapter. No temporary exemption will attach upon filing and the requested exemption will be effective only if approved by the Commission. Persons may also seek exemptions for classes of transactions by filing a petition for declaratory order pursuant to § 385.207(a) of this chapter justifying the request for exemption. Any person seeking such an exemption shall bear the burden of demonstrating that such exemption is warranted.
