
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 366 - BOOKS AND RECORDS
##### Subpart A - Definitions and Provisions Under PUHCA 2005, the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act
###### § 366.4 FERC-65, notification of holding company status, FERC-65A, exemption notification, and FERC-65B, waiver notification.
####### FERC-65B (waiver notification) and petitions for waiver.

(c)(1) Persons who, pursuant to § 366.3(c), seek waiver of the accounting, record-retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 366.21, 366.22, and 366.23, may seek such waiver by filing FERC-65B (waiver notification); FERC-65B must be subscribed, consistent with § 385.2005(a) of this chapter, but need not be verified. FERC-65B will be noticed in the; persons who file FERC-65B must include a form of notice suitable for publication in thein accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this chapter. Persons who file FERC-65B in good faith shall be deemed to have a temporary exemption upon filing. If the Commission has taken no action within 60 days after the date of filing of FERC-65B, the waiver shall be deemed to have been granted. The Commission may toll the 60-day period to request additional information or for further consideration of the request; in such case, the temporary waiver will remain in effect until such time as the Commission has determined whether to grant or deny the waiver. Authority to toll the 60-day period is delegated to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.

(2) Persons that do not qualify for waiver pursuant to § 366.3(c) may seek an individual waiver from this subchapter. They may not do so by means of filing FERC-65B and instead must file a petition for declaratory order as required under § 366.3(d). Such petitions will be noticed in the; persons that file a petition must include a form of notice suitable for publication in thein accordance with the specifications in § 385.203(d) of this chapter. No temporary waiver will attach upon filing and the requested exemption will be effective only if approved by the Commission. Persons may also seek waivers for classes of transactions by filing a petition for declaratory order pursuant to § 385.207(a) of this chapter justifying the request for waiver. Any person seeking such waiver shall bear the burden of demonstrating that such waiver is warranted.
