
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart B - General Instructions
###### ยง 367.18 Criteria for classifying leases.

(a) If, at its inception, a lease meets one or more of the following criteria, the lease must be classified as a capital lease. Otherwise, it must be classified as an operating lease.

(1) The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the end of the lease term.

(2) The lease contains a bargain purchase option.

(3) The lease term is equal to 75 percent or more of the estimated economic life of the leased property. However, if the beginning of the lease term falls within the last 25 percent of the total estimated economic life of the leased property, including earlier years of use, this criterion must not be used for purposes of classifying the lease.

(4) The present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor, including any related profit, equals or exceeds 90 percent of the excess of the fair value of the leased property to the lessor at the inception of the lease over any related investment tax credit retained by the lessor and expected to be realized by the lessor. However, if the beginning of the lease term falls within the last 25 percent of the total estimated economic life of the leased property, including earlier years of use, this criterion must not be used for purposes of classifying the lease. The lessee must compute the present value of the minimum lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate, unless:

(i) It is practicable for the company to learn the implicit rate computed by the lessor, and

(ii) The implicit rate computed by the lessor is less than the lessee's incremental borrowing rate.

(iii) If both of those conditions are met, the lessee must use the implicit rate.

(b) If, at any time, the lessee and lessor agree to change the provisions of the lease, other than by renewing the lease or extending its term, in a manner that would have resulted in a different classification of the lease under the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section had the changed terms been in effect at the inception of the lease, the revised agreement must be considered as a new agreement over its term, and the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section must be applied for purposes of classifying the new lease. Likewise, any action that extends the lease beyond the expiration of the existing lease term, such as the exercise of a lease renewal option other than those already included in the lease term, must be considered as a new agreement and must be classified according to the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. Changes in estimates (for example, changes in estimates of the economic life or of the residual value of the leased property) or changes in circumstances (for example, default by the lessee) must not give rise to a new classification of a lease for accounting purposes.
