
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart C - Service Company Property Instructions
###### ยง 367.51 Components of construction.

(a) For service companies, the cost of construction properly included in the service company property accounts must include, where applicable, the direct and overhead costs as listed and defined as follows:

(1) Contract work includes amounts paid for work performed under contract by other companies, firms, or individuals, costs incident to the award of such contracts, and the inspection of the work.

(2) Labor includes the pay and expenses of employees of the service company engaged in construction work, and related workmen's compensation insurance, payroll taxes and similar items of expense. It does not include the pay and expenses of employees that are distributed to construction through clearing accounts nor the pay and expenses included in other items in this section.

(3)(i) Materials and supplies includes the purchase price at the point of free delivery plus customs duties, excise taxes, the cost of inspection, loading and transportation, the related stores expenses, and the cost of fabricated materials from the service company's shop. In determining the cost of materials and supplies used for construction, proper allowance must be made for unused materials and supplies, for materials recovered from temporary structures used in performing the work involved, and for discounts allowed and realized in the purchase of materials and supplies.

(ii) The cost of individual items of equipment of small value (for example, $500 or less) or of short life, including small portable tools and implements, must not be charged to service company property accounts unless the correctness of the accounting is verified by current inventories. The cost must be charged to the appropriate operating expense or clearing accounts, according to the use of the items, or, if the items are consumed directly in construction work, the cost must be included as part of the cost of the construction.
