
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart C - Service Company Property Instructions
###### § 367.55 Land and land rights.

(a) The accounts for land and land rights must include the cost of land owned in fee by the service company and rights. Interests, and privileges held by the service company in land owned by others, such as leaseholds, easements, water and water power rights, diversion rights, submersion rights, rights-of-way, and other like interests in land. Do not include in the accounts for land and land rights and rights-of-way costs incurred in connection with first clearing and grading of land and rights-of-way and the damage costs associated with the construction and installation of property. The costs must be included in the appropriate property accounts directly benefited.

(b) Where special assessments for public improvements provide for deferred payments, the full amount of the assessments must be charged to the appropriate land account and the unpaid balance must be carried in an appropriate liability account. Interest on unpaid balances must be charged to the appropriate interest account. If any part of the cost of public improvements is included in the general tax levy, the related amount must be charged to the appropriate tax account.

(c) The net profit from the sale of timber, cord wood, sand, gravel, other resources or other property acquired with the rights-of-way or other lands must be credited to the appropriate property account to which it is related. Where land is held for a considerable period of time and timber and other natural resources on the land at the time of purchase increases in value, the net profit (after giving effect to the cost of the natural resources) from the sales of timber or its products or other natural resources must be credited to the appropriate operating income account when the land has been recorded in account 101, Service company property (§ 367.1010), otherwise to account 421, Miscellaneous income or loss (§ 367.4210).

(d) Separate entries must be made for the acquisition, transfer, or retirement of each parcel of land, and each land right (except rights of way for distribution lines), or water right, having a life of more than one year. A record must be maintained showing the nature of ownership, full legal description, area, map reference, purpose for which used, city, county, and tax district on which situated, from whom purchased or to whom sold, payment given or received, other costs, contract date and number, date of recording of deed, and book and page of record. Entries transferring or retiring land or land rights must refer to the original entry recording its acquisition.

(e) Any difference between the amount received from the sale of land or land rights, less agents' commissions and other costs incident to the sale, and the book cost of such land or rights, must be included in account 421.1, Gain on disposition of property (§ 367.4211), or account 421.2, Loss on disposition of property (§ 367.4212), when the property has been recorded in account 101, Service company property (§ 367.1010). Appropriate adjustments of the accounts must be made with respect to any structures or improvements located on the land sold.

(f) The cost of buildings and other improvements (other than public improvements) must not be included in the land accounts. If, at the time of acquisition of an interest in land the interest extends to buildings or other improvements (other than public improvements) that are then devoted to operations, the land and improvements must be separately appraised and the cost allocated to land and buildings or improvements on the basis of the appraisals. If the improvements are removed or wrecked without being used in operations, the cost of removing or wrecking must be charged and the salvage credited to the account in which the cost of the land is recorded.
