
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart C - Service Company Property Instructions
###### ยง 367.55 Land and land rights.
####### See

(g) Provisions must be made for amortizing amounts carried in the accounts for limited-term interests in land so as to apportion equitably the cost of each interest over the life thereof. (account 111, Accumulated provision for amortization of service company property in ยง 367.1110, and account 404, Amortization of limited-term property in ยง 367.4040.)

(h) The items of cost to be included in the accounts for land and land rights are as follows:

(1) Bulkheads, buried, not requiring maintenance or replacement.

(2) Cost, first, of acquisition including mortgages and other liens assumed (but not the related subsequent interest).

(3) Condemnation proceedings, including court and counsel costs.

(4) Consents and abutting damages, payment for.

(5) Conveyancers' and notaries' fees.

(6) Fees, commissions, and salaries to brokers, agents and others in connection with the acquisition of the land or land rights.

(7) Leases, cost of voiding upon purchase to secure possession of land.

(8) Removing, relocating, or reconstructing, property of others, such as buildings, highways, railroads, bridges, cemeteries, churches, telephone and power lines, in order to acquire quiet possession.

(9) Retaining walls unless identified with structures.

(10) Special assessments levied by public authorities for public improvements on the basis of benefits for new roads, new bridges, new sewers, new curbing, new pavements, and other public improvements, but not taxes levied to provide for the maintenance of such improvements.

(11) Surveys in connection with the acquisition, but not amounts paid for topographical surveys and maps where the costs are attributable to structures or plant equipment erected or to be erected or installed on the land.

(12) Taxes assumed, accrued to date of transfer of title.

(13) Title, examining, clearing, insuring and registering in connection with the acquisition and defending against claims relating to the period prior to the acquisition.

(14) Appraisals prior to closing title.

(15) Cost of dealing with distributees or legatees residing outside of the state or county, such as recording power of attorney, recording will or exemplification of will, recording satisfaction of state tax.

(16) Filing satisfaction of mortgage.

(17) Documentary stamps.

(18) Photographs of property at acquisition.

(19) Fees and expenses incurred in the acquisition of water rights and grants.

(20) Cost of fill to extend bulkhead line over land under water, where riparian rights are held, which is not occasioned by the erection of a structure.

(21) Sidewalks and curbs constructed by the service company on public property.

(22) Labor and expenses in connection with securing rights of way, where performed by company employees and company agents.
