
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart D - Operating Expense Instructions
###### ยง 367.80 Supervision and engineering.

(a) The supervision and engineering includible in the operating expense accounts must consist of the pay and expenses of superintendents, engineers, clerks, other employees and consultants engaged in supervising and directing the operation and maintenance of each service company function. Wherever allocations are necessary in order to arrive at the amount to be included in any account, the method and basis of allocation must be reflected by underlying records.

(b) This account must include the following labor items:

(1) Special tests to determine efficiency of equipment operation.

(2) Preparing or reviewing budgets, estimates, and drawings relating to operation or maintenance for departmental approval.

(3) Preparing instructions for operations and maintenance activities.

(4) Reviewing and analyzing operating results.

(5) Establishing organizational setup of departments and executing related changes.

(6) Formulating and reviewing routines of departments and executing related changes.
