
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart F - Balance Sheet Chart of Accounts
###### Current and Accrued Assets
####### ยง 367.1440 Account 144, Accumulated provision for uncollectible accounts - Credit.

(a) This account must be credited with amounts provided for losses on accounts receivable that may become uncollectible, and also with collections on related previously charged accounts. Concurrent charges must be made to account 904, Uncollectible accounts (ยง 367.9040), for amounts applicable to service company operations, and to corresponding accounts for other operations. Records must be maintained so as to show the write-offs of account receivable for each service company department.

(b) This account must be subdivided to show the provision applicable to the following classes of accounts receivable:

(1) Service company customers.

(2) Merchandising, jobbing and contract work.

(3) Officers and employees.

(4) Others.

(c) Accretions to this account must not be made in excess of a reasonable provision against losses of the related character.

(d) If provisions for uncollectible notes receivable or for uncollectible receivables from associate companies are necessary, separate related subaccounts must be established under the account in which the receivable is carried.
