
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart E - Application for License for Major Unconstructed Project and Major Modified Project
###### ยง 4.41 Contents of application.
####### Exhibit G,i.e.,,i.e.,

(h)is a map of the project that must conform to the specifications of ยง 4.39. In addition, to the other components of Exhibit G, the Applicant must provide the project boundary data in a geo-referenced electronic format-such as ArcView shape files, GeoMedia files, MapInfo files, or any similar format. The electronic boundary data must be positionally accurate to +/-40 feet, in order to comply with the National Map Accuracy Standards for maps at a 1:24,000 scale (the scale of USGS quadrangle maps). The electronic exhibit G data must include a text file describing the map projection used (UTM, State Plane, Decimal Degrees, etc.), the map datum (feet, meters, miles, etc.). Three sets of the maps must be submitted on compact disk or other appropriate electronic media. If more than one sheet is used for the paper maps, the sheets must be numbered consecutively, and each sheet must bear a small insert sketch showing the entire project and indicate that portion of the project depicted on that sheet. Each sheet must contain a minimum of three known reference points. The latitude and longitude coordinates, or state plane coordinates, of each reference point must be shown. If at any time after the application is filed there is any change in the project boundary, the applicant must submit, within 90 days following the completion of project construction, a final exhibit G showing the extent of such changes. The map must show:
