
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart F - Balance Sheet Chart of Accounts
###### § 367.1110 Account 111, Accumulated provision for amortization of service company property.

(a) This account must be credited with the following:

(1) Amounts charged to account 404, Amortization of limited-term property (§ 367.4040), for the current amortization of limited-term service company property investments.

(2) Amounts charged to account 405, Amortization of other property (§ 367.4050).

(3) Amounts charged to account 425, Miscellaneous amortization (§ 367.4250), for the amortization of intangible or other property, that does not have a definite or terminable life and is not subject to charges for depreciation expense, with Commission approval.

(b) The service company must maintain subaccounts of this account for the amortization applicable to service company property and property leased to others.

(c) When any property to which this account applies is sold, relinquished, or otherwise retired from service, this account must be charged with the amount previously credited in respect to the property. The book cost of the retired property less the amount chargeable to this account and less the net proceeds realized at retirement must be included in account 421.1, Gain on disposition of property (§ 367.4211), or account 421.2, Loss on disposition of property (§ 367.4212), as appropriate.

(d) For general ledger and balance sheet purposes, this account must be regarded and treated as a single composite provision for amortization. The subsidiary records must reflect the current credits and debits to this account in sufficient detail to show the following separately:

(1) The amount of accrual for amortization,

(2) The book cost of property retired,

(3) Cost of removal,

(4) Salvage, and

(5) Other items, including recoveries from insurance.

(e) The service company is restricted in its use of the accumulated provision for amortization to the purposes provided in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. It must not transfer any portion of this account to retained earnings or make any other use of the amortization without authorization by the Commission.
