
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1b - RULES RELATING TO INVESTIGATIONS
##### ยง 1b.20 Request for confidential treatment.

Any person compelled to produce documents in an investigation may claim that some or all of the information contained in a particular document(s) is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), is information referred to in 18 U.S.C. 1905, or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure. In such case, the person making such claim shall, at the time said person produces the document to the officer conducting the investigation shall also produce a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which the person wishes to claim confidential treatment. The person shall indicate on the original document that a request for confidential treatment is being made for some or all of the information in the document and shall file a statement specifying the specific statutory justification for non-disclosure of the information for which confidential treatment is claimed. General claims of confidentiality are not sufficient. Sufficient information must be furnished for the officer conducting the investigation, or other appropriate official, to make an informed decision on the request for confidential treatment. If the person states that the information comes within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) for trade secrets and commercial or financial information, the person shall include a statement specifying why the information is privileged or confidential. If the person filing a document does not submit a second copy of the document with the confidential information deleted, the Officer conducting the investigation may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety. The Commission retains the right to make the determination with regard to any claim of confidentiality. Notice of the decision by the investigating Officer or other appropriate official to deny a claim, in whole or in part, and an opportunity to respond shall be given to a person claiming confidentiality no less than 5 days before its public disclosure.
