
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart G - Service Company Property Chart of Accounts
###### ยง 367.3940 Account 394, Tools, shop and garage equipment.

(a) This account must include the cost of tools, implements, and equipment used in construction, repair work, general shops and garages and not specifically provided for or includible in other accounts.

(b) This account must include the following items:

(1) Air compressors.

(2) Anvils.

(3) Automobile repair shop equipment.

(4) Battery charging equipment.

(5) Belts, shafts and countershafts.

(6) Boilers.

(7) Cable pulling equipment.

(8) Concrete mixers.

(9) Drill presses.

(10) Derricks.

(11) Electric equipment.

(12) Engines.

(13) Forges.

(14) Furnaces.

(15) Foundations and settings specially constructed for equipment in this account and not expected to outlast the equipment for which provided.

(16) Gas producers.

(17) Gasoline pumps, oil pumps and storage tanks.

(18) Greasing tools and equipment.

(19) Hoists.

(20) Ladders.

(21) Lathes.

(22) Machine tools.

(23) Motor-driven tools.

(24) Motors.

(25) Pipe threading and cutting tools.

(26) Pneumatic tools.

(27) Pumps.

(28) Riveters.

(29) Smithing equipment.

(30) Tool racks.

(31) Vises.

(32) Welding apparatus.

(33) Work benches.
