
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart G - Service Company Property Chart of Accounts
###### ยง 367.3950 Account 395, Laboratory equipment.

(a) This account must include the cost installed of laboratory equipment used for general laboratory purposes.

(b) This account must include the following items:

(1) Ammeters.

(2) Balances and scales.

(3) Barometers.

(4) Calorimeters-bomb, flow, recording types, and other similar items.

(5) Current batteries.

(6) Electric furnaces.

(7) Frequency changers.

(8) Galvanometers.

(9) Gas burning equipment.

(10) Gauges.

(11) Glassware, beakers, burettes, and other similar items.

(12) Humidity testing apparatus.

(13) Inductometers.

(14) Laboratory hoods.

(15) Laboratory standard millivolt meters.

(16) Laboratory standard volt meters.

(17) Laboratory tables and cabinets.

(18) Meter-testing equipment.

(19) Millivolt meters.

(20) Motor generator sets.

(21) Muffles.

(22) Oil analysis apparatus.

(23) Panels.

(24) Phantom loads.

(25) Piping.

(26) Portable graphic ammeters, voltmeters, and wattmeters.

(27) Portable loading devices.

(28) Potential batteries.

(29) Potentiometers.

(30) Rotating standards.

(31) Specific gravity apparatus.

(32) Standard bottles for meter prover testing.

(33) Standard cell, reactance, resistor, and shunt.

(34) Stills.

(35) Sulphur and ammonia apparatus.

(36) Switchboards.

(37) Synchronous timers.

(38) Tar analysis apparatus.

(39) Testing panels.

(40) Testing resistors.

(41) Thermometers-indicating and recording.

(42) Transformers.

(43) Voltmeters.

(44) Other testing, laboratory, or research equipment not provided for elsewhere.

(45) Other items of equipment for testing gas, fuel, flue gas, water, residuals, and other similar items.
