
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart K - Operation and Maintenance Expense Chart of Accounts
###### § 367.9080 Account 908, Customer assistance expenses.

(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used and expenses incurred in providing instructions or assistance to customers, the object of which is to encourage safe, efficient and economical use of the associate utility company's service.

(b) This account must include the following labor items:

(1) Direct supervision of department.

(2) Processing customer inquiries relating to the proper use of electric equipment, the replacement of such equipment and information related to the equipment.

(3) Advice directed to customers as to how they may achieve the most efficient and safest use of electric equipment.

(4) Demonstrations, exhibits, lectures, and other programs designed to instruct customers in the safe, economical or efficient use of electric service, and/or oriented toward conservation of energy.

(5) Engineering and technical advice to customers, the object of which is to promote safe, efficient and economical use of the associate utility company's service.

(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:

(1) Supplies and expenses pertaining to demonstrations, exhibits, lectures, and other programs.

(2) Loss in value on equipment and appliances used for customer assistance programs.

(3) Office supplies and expenses.

(4) Transportation, meals, and incidental expenses.

(d) Do not include in this account expenses that are provided for elsewhere, such as accounts 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160), 587, Customer installations expenses (§ 367.5870), 879, Customer installations expenses (§ 367.8790), and 912, Demonstrating and selling expenses (§ 367.9120).
