
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart K - Operation and Maintenance Expense Chart of Accounts
###### § 367.9240 Account 924, Property insurance.

(a) This account must include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the service company against losses and damages to owned or leased property used in service company operations. It also must include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in property insurance activities.

(b) Recoveries from insurance companies or others for property damages must be credited to the account charged with the cost of the damage. If the damaged property has been retired, the credit must be to the appropriate account for accumulated provision for depreciation.

(c) Records must be kept so as to show the amount of coverage for each class of insurance carried, the property covered, and the applicable premiums. Any dividends distributed by mutual insurance companies must be credited to the accounts to which the insurance premiums were charged. The following items must be included in this account:

(1) Premiums payable to insurance companies for fire, storm, burglary, boiler explosion, lightning, fidelity, riot, and similar insurance.

(2) Special costs incurred in procuring insurance.

(3) Insurance inspection service.

(4) Insurance counsel, brokerage fees, and expenses.

(d) The cost of insurance or reserve accruals capitalized must be charged to construction either directly or by transfer to construction projects from this account.

(e) The cost of insurance or reserve accruals for the following classes of property must be charged as indicated.

(1) Materials and supplies and stores equipment, to account 163, Stores expense undistributed (§ 367.1630), or appropriate materials account.

(2) Transportation and other general equipment to appropriate clearing accounts that may be maintained.

(3) Merchandise and jobbing property, to account 416, Costs and expenses of merchandising, jobbing and contract work (§ 367.4160).

(f) The cost of labor and related supplies and expenses of administrative and general employees who are only incidentally engaged in property insurance work may be included in accounts 920 and 921 (§§ 367.9200 and 367.9210), as appropriate.
