
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart K - Operation and Maintenance Expense Chart of Accounts
###### ยง 367.9250 Account 925, Injuries and damages.

(a) This account must include the cost of insurance or reserve accruals to protect the service company against injuries and damages claims of employees or others, losses of such character not covered by insurance, and expenses incurred in settlement of injuries and damages claims. It also must include the cost of labor and related supplies and expenses incurred in injuries and damages activities.

(b) Reimbursements from insurance companies or others for expenses charged to this account because of injuries and damages and insurance dividends or refunds must be credited to this account. The following items must be included in this account:

(1) Premiums payable to insurance companies for protection against claims from injuries and damages by employees or others, such as public liability, property damages, casualty, employee liability, and other similar items.

(2) Losses not covered by insurance or reserve accruals on account of injuries or deaths to employees or others and damages to the property of others.

(3) Fees and expenses of claim investigators.

(4) Payment of awards to claimants for court costs and attorneys' services.

(5) Medical and hospital service and expenses for employees as the result of occupational injuries, or resulting from claims of others.

(6) Compensation payments under workmen's compensation laws.
