
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 367 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR CENTRALIZED SERVICE COMPANIES SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 2005, FEDERAL POWER ACT AND NATURAL GAS ACT
##### Subpart K - Operation and Maintenance Expense Chart of Accounts
###### ยง 367.9301 Account 930.1, General advertising expenses for associated companies.

(a) This account must include the cost of labor, materials used, and expenses incurred in advertising and related activities, the cost of which by their content and purpose are not provided for elsewhere.

(b) This account must include the following labor items:

(1) Supervision.

(2) Preparing advertising material for newspapers, periodicals, billboards, and other similar items, and preparing or conducting motion pictures, radio and television programs.

(3) Preparing booklets, bulletins, and other similar forms of advertisement, used in direct mail advertising.

(4) Preparing window and other displays.

(5) Clerical and stenographic work.

(6) Investigating and employing advertising agencies, selecting media and conducting negotiations in connection with the placement and subject matter of advertising.

(c) This account must include the following materials and expenses items:

(1) Advertising in newspapers, periodicals, billboards, radio, and other similar forms of advertisement.

(2) Advertising matter such as posters, bulletins, booklets, and related items.

(3) Fees and expenses of advertising agencies and commercial artists.

(4) Postage and direct mail advertising.

(5) Printing of booklets, dodgers, bulletins, and other related items.

(6) Supplies and expenses in preparing advertising materials.

(7) Office supplies and expenses.

(d) Properly includible in this account is the cost of advertising activities on a local or national basis of a good will or institutional nature, which is primarily designed to improve the image of the associate utility company or the industry, including advertisements which inform the public concerning matters affecting the associate utility company's operations, such as, the cost of providing service, the associate utility company's efforts to improve the quality of service, the company's efforts to improve and protect the environment, and other similar forms of advertisement. Entries relating to advertising included in this account must contain or refer to supporting documents which identify the specific advertising message. If references are used, copies of the advertising message must be readily available.

(e) Exclude from this account and include in account 426.4, Expenditures for certain civic, political and related activities (ยง 367.4264), expenses for advertising activities that are designed to solicit public support or the support of public officials in matters of a political nature.
