
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter U - Regulations Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act
#### PART 368 - PRESERVATION OF RECORDS OF HOLDING COMPANIES AND SERVICE COMPANIES
##### § 368.2 General instructions.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(3) Any company subject to this regulation, that, as agent, operator, lessor or otherwise, maintains or has possession of any records relating to the operation, property or obligations of a public utility, licensee, or natural gas company, as defined in the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 824), the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 717), or the laws of any state within which the public utility, licensee, or natural gas company operates, must comply with the laws or regulations as to record retention and destruction which would apply to the records if they were records of the public utility, licensee, or natural gas company as codified in parts 125 and 225 of this chapter.

(4) The regulations in this part should not be construed as excusing compliance with other lawful requirements of any other governmental body, Federal or State, prescribing other record keeping requirements or for preservation of records longer than those prescribed in this part.

(5) To the extent that any Commission regulations may provide for a different record retention period, the records must be retained for the longer of the retention periods.

(6) Records, other than those listed in the schedule, may be destroyed at the option of the company. However, records that are used in lieu of those listed must be preserved for the periods prescribed for the records used for substantially similar purposes. Additionally, retention of records pertaining to added services, functions, plant, and other similar service, the establishment of which cannot be presently foreseen, must conform to the principles embodied in this section.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of the records retention schedule in this section, the Commission may, upon the request of the company, authorize a shorter period of retention for any record listed in the schedule upon a showing by the company that preservation of the record for a longer period is not necessary or appropriate, in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers.
