
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter W - Revised General Rules
#### PART 375 - THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart C - Delegations
###### ยง 375.315 Delegations to the Director of the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation.

The Commission authorizes the Director or the Director's designee to:

(a) Take appropriate action on:

(1) Any notice of intervention or motion to intervene, filed in an uncontested proceeding processed by the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation;

(2) Applications or motions for extensions of time to file required filings, reports, data and information and to perform other acts required at or within a specific time by any rule, regulation, license, permit, certificate, or order by the Commission, including applications or motions for extensions of time to file the Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) and the Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730); and

(3) Requests or petitions for waiver of the requirements of the Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) and the Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730).

(4) Notification to a party if a submitted Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions (FERC Form No. 552) or Report of Transmission Investment Activity (FERC-730) fails to comply with applicable statutory requirements, and with all applicable Commission rules, regulations, and orders for which a waiver has not been granted, or, when appropriate notify a party that a submission is acceptable.

(b) Undertake the following actions:

(1) Issue reports for public information purposes. Any report issued without Commission approval must:

(i) Be of a noncontroversial nature, and

(ii) Contain the statement, "This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission," in bold face type on the cover;

(2) Issue and sign requests for additional information regarding applications, filings, reports and data processed by the Office of Energy Policy and Innovation; and

(3) Accept for filing, data and reports required by Commission regulations, rules, or orders, or presiding officers' initial decisions upon which the Commission has taken no further action, if such filings are in compliance with such regulations, rules, orders or decisions and, when appropriate, notify the filing party of such acceptance.
