
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter W - Revised General Rules
#### PART 380 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
##### ยง 380.14 Compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act.

(a) Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470(f)) (NHPA), requires the Commission to take into account the effect of a proposed project on any historic property and to afford the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Council) an opportunity to comment on projects if required under 36 CFR 800. The project sponsor, as a non-Federal party, assists the Commission in meeting its obligations under NHPA section 106 and the implementing regulations at 36 CFR part 800 by following the procedures at ยง 380.12(f). The project sponsor may contact the Commission at any time for assistance. The Commission will review the resultant filings.

(1) The Commission's NHPA section 106 responsibilities apply to public and private lands, unless subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The project sponsor will assist the Commission in taking into account the views of interested parties, Native Americans, and tribal leaders.

(2) If Federal or Tribal land is affected by a proposed project, the project sponsor shall adhere to any requirements for cultural resources studies of the applicable Federal land- managing agencies on Federal lands and any tribal requirements on Tribal lands. The project sponsor must identify, in Resource Report 4 filed with the application, the status of cultural resources studies on Federal or Tribal lands, as applicable.

(3) The project sponsor must consult with the SHPO(s) and THPOs, if appropriate. If the SHPO or THPO declines to consult with the project sponsor, the project sponsor shall not continue with consultations, except as instructed by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects.

(4) If the project is covered by an agreement document among the Commission, Council, SHPO(s), THPO(s), land-managing agencies, project sponsors, and interested persons, as appropriate, then that agreement will provide for compliance with NHPA section 106, as applicable.

(b) [Reserved]
