
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter W - Revised General Rules
#### PART 380 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
##### ยง 380.15 Siting and maintenance requirements.
###### Pipeline and electric transmission facilities construction.

(e)(1) The use, widening, or extension of existing rights-of-way must be considered in locating proposed facilities.

(2) In locating proposed facilities, the project sponsor shall, to the extent practicable, avoid places listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places; natural landmarks listed on the National Register of Natural Landmarks; officially designated parks; wetlands; and scenic, recreational, and wildlife lands. If rights-of-way must be routed near or through such places, attempts should be made to minimize visibility from areas of public view and to preserve the character and existing environment of the area.

(3) Rights-of-way should avoid forested areas and steep slopes where practical.

(4) Rights-of-way clearing should be kept to the minimum width necessary.

(5) In selecting a method to clear rights-of-way, soil stability and protection of natural vegetation and adjacent resources should be taken into account.

(6) Trees and vegetation cleared from rights-of-way in areas of public view should be disposed of without undue delay.

(7) Remaining trees and shrubs should not be unnecessarily damaged.

(8) Long foreground views of cleared rights-of-way through wooded areas that are visible from areas of public view should be avoided.

(9) Where practical, rights-of-way should avoid crossing hills and other high points at their crests where the crossing is in a forested area and the resulting notch is clearly visible in the foreground from areas of public view.

(10) Screen plantings should be employed where rights-of-way enter forested areas from a clearing and where the clearing is plainly visible in the foreground from areas of public view.

(11) Temporary roads should be designed for proper drainage and built to minimize soil erosion. Upon abandonment, the road area should be restored and stabilized without undue delay.
