
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter W - Revised General Rules
#### PART 380 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
##### Appendix A to Part 380 - Minimum Filing Requirements for Environmental Reports Under the Natural Gas Act

1. Provide a detailed description and location map of the project facilities. (§ 380.12(c)(1)).

2. Describe any nonjurisdictional facilities that would be built in association with the project. (§ 380.12(c)(2)).

3. Provide current original U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute-series topographic maps with mileposts showing the project facilities; (§ 380.12(c)(3)).

4. Provide aerial images or photographs or alignment sheets based on these sources with mileposts showing the project facilities; (§ 380.12(c)(3)).

5. Provide plot/site plans of compressor stations showing the location of the nearest noise-sensitive areas (NSA) within 1 mile. (§ 380.12(c)(3,4)).

6. Describe construction and restoration methods. (§ 380.12(c)(6)).

7. Identify the permits required for construction across surface waters. (§ 380.12(c)(9)).

8. Provide the names and address of all affected landowners and certify that all affected landowners will be notified as required in § 157.6(d). (§§ 380.12(c)(10))

1. Identify all perennial surface waterbodies crossed by the proposed project and their water quality classification. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).

2. Identify all waterbody crossings that may have contaminated waters or sediments. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).

3. Identify watershed areas, designated surface water protection areas, and sensitive waterbodies crossed by the proposed project. (§ 380.12(d)(1)).

4. Provide a table (based on NWI maps if delineations have not been done) identifying all wetlands, by milepost and length, crossed by the project (including abandoned pipeline), and the total acreage and acreage of each wetland type that would be affected by construction. (§ 380.12(d)(1 & 4)).

5. Discuss construction and restoration methods proposed for crossing wetlands, and compare them to staff's Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures; (§ 380.12(d)(2)).

6. Describe the proposed waterbody construction, impact mitigation, and restoration methods to be used to cross surface waters and compare to the staff's Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures. (§ 380.12(d)(2)).

7. Provide original National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) maps or the appropriate state wetland maps, if NWI maps are not available, that show all proposed facilities and include milepost locations for proposed pipeline routes. (§ 380.12(d)(4)).

8. Identify all U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)- or state- designated aquifers crossed. (§ 380.12(d)(9)).

1. Classify the fishery type of each surface waterbody that would be crossed, including fisheries of special concern. (§ 380.12(e)(1)).

2. Describe terrestrial and wetland wildlife and habitats that would be affected by the project. (§ 380.12(e)(2)).

3. Describe the major vegetative cover types that would be crossed and provide the acreage of each vegetative cover type that would be affected by construction. (§ 380.12(e)(3)).

4. Describe the effects of construction and operation procedures on the fishery resources and proposed mitigation measures. (§ 380.12(e)(4)).

5. Evaluate the potential for short-term, long-term, and permanent impact on the wildlife resources and state-listed endangered or threatened species caused by construction and operation of the project and proposed mitigation measures. (§ 380.12(e)(4)).

6. Identify all federally listed or proposed endangered or threatened species that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project and discuss the results of the consultations with other agencies. Include survey reports as specified in § 380.12(e)(5).

7. Identify all federally listed essential fish habitat (EFH) that potentially occurs in the vicinity of the project and the results of abbreviated consultations with NMFS, and any resulting EFH assessments. (§ 380.12(e)(6))

8. Describe any significant biological resources that would be affected. Describe impact and any mitigation proposed to avoid or minimize that impact. (§§ 380.12(e)(4 & 7))

See § 380.14 and "OPR's Guidelines for Reporting on Cultural Resources Investigations" for further guidance.

1. Initial cultural resources consultation and documentation, and documentation of consultation with Native Americans. (§ 380.12(f)(1)(i) & (2)).

2. Overview/Survey Report(s). (§ 380.12(f)(1)(ii) & (2)).

1. For major aboveground facilities and major pipeline projects that require an EIS, describe existing socioeconomic conditions within the project area. (§ 380.12(g)(1)).

2. For major aboveground facilities, quantify impact on employment, housing, local government services, local tax revenues, transportation, and other relevant factors within the project area. (§ 380.12(g)(2-6)).

1. Identify the location (by milepost) of mineral resources and any planned or active surface mines crossed by the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(1 & 2)).

2. Identify any geologic hazards to the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(2))

3. Discuss the need for and locations where blasting may be necessary in order to construct the proposed facilities. (§ 380.12(h)(3))

4. For LNG projects in seismic areas, the materials required by "Data Requirements for the Seismic Review of LNG Facilities," NBSIR84-2833. (§ 380.12(h)(5))

5. For underground storage facilities, how drilling activity by others within or adjacent to the facilities would be monitored, and how old wells would be located and monitored within the facility boundaries. (§ 380.12(h)(6))

1. Identify, describe, and group by milepost the soils affected by the proposed pipeline and aboveground facilities. (§ 380.12(i)(1))

2. For aboveground facilities that would occupy sites over 5 acres, determine the acreage of prime farmland soils that would be affected by construction and operation. (§ 380.12(i)(2))

3. Describe, by milepost, potential impacts on soils. (§ 380.12(i)(3,4))

4. Identify proposed mitigation to minimize impact on soils, and compare with the staff's Upland Erosion Control, Revegetation, and Maintenance Plan. (§ 380.12(i)(5))

1. Classify and quantify land use affected by: (§ 380.12(j)(1))

a. Pipeline construction and permanent rights-of-way (§ 380.12(j)(1));

b. Extra work/staging areas (§ 380.12(j)(1));

c. Access roads (§ 380.12(j)(1));

d. Pipe and contractor yards (§ 380.12(j)(1)); and

e. Aboveground facilities (§ 380.12(j)(1)).

2. Identify by milepost all locations where the pipeline right-of-way would at least partially coincide with existing right-of-way, where it would be adjacent to existing rights-of-way, and where it would be outside of existing right-of-way. (§ 380.12(j)(1))

3. Provide detailed typical construction right-of-way cross-section diagrams showing information such as widths and relative locations of existing rights-of-way, new permanent right-of-way, and temporary construction right-of-way. (§ 380.12(j)(1))

4. Summarize the total acreage of land affected by construction and operation of the project. (§ 380.12(j)(1))

5. Identify by milepost all planned residential or commercial/business development and the time frame for construction. (§ 380.12(j)(3))

6. Identify by milepost special land uses (e.g., sugar maple stands, specialty crops, natural areas, national and state forests, conservation land, etc.). (§ 380.12(j)(4))

7. Identify by beginning milepost and length of crossing all land administered by Federal, state, or local agencies, or private conservation organizations. (§ 380.12(j)(4))

8. Identify by milepost all natural, recreational, or scenic areas, and all registered natural landmarks crossed by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(4 & 6))

9. Identify all facilities that would be within designated coastal zone management areas. Provide a consistency determination or evidence that a request for a consistency determination has been filed with the appropriate state agency. ((§ 380.12(j)(4 & 7))

10. Identify by milepost all residences that would be within 50 feet of the construction right-of-way or extra work area. (§ 380.12(j)(5))

11. Identify all designated or proposed candidate National or State Wild and Scenic Rivers crossed by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(6))

12. Describe any measures to visually screen aboveground facilities, such as compressor stations. (§ 380.12(j)(11))

13. Demonstrate that applications for rights-of-way or other proposed land use have been or soon will be filed with Federal land-managing agencies with jurisdiction over land that would be affected by the project. (§ 380.12(j)(12))

1. Describe existing air quality in the vicinity of the project. (§ 380.12(k)(1))

2. Quantify the existing noise levels (day-night sound level (L) and other applicable noise parameters) at noise-sensitive areas and at other areas covered by relevant state and local noise ordinances. (§ 380.12(k)(2))

3. Quantify existing and proposed emissions of compressor equipment, plus construction emissions, including nitrogen oxides (NO) and carbon monoxide (CO), and the basis for these calculations. Summarize anticipated air quality impacts for the project. (§ 380.12(k)(3))

4. Describe the existing compressor units at each station where new, additional, or modified compressor units are proposed, including the manufacturer, model number, and horsepower of the compressor units. For proposed new, additional, or modified compressor units include the horsepower, type, and energy source. (§ 380.12(k)(4)).

5. Identify any nearby noise-sensitive area by distance and direction from the proposed compressor unit building/enclosure. (§ 380.12(k)(4))

6. Identify any applicable state or local noise regulations. (§ 380.12(k)(4))

7. Calculate the noise impact at noise-sensitive areas of the proposed compressor unit modifications or additions, specifying how the impact was calculated, including manufacturer's data and proposed noise control equipment. (§ 380.12(k)(4))

1. Address the "no action" alternative. (§ 380.12(l)(1))

2. For large projects, address the effect of energy conservation or energy alternatives to the project. (§ 380.12(l)(1))

3. Identify system alternatives considered during the identification of the project and provide the rationale for rejecting each alternative. (§ 380.12(l)(1))

4. Identify major and minor route alternatives considered to avoid impact on sensitive environmental areas (e.g., wetlands, parks, or residences) and provide sufficient comparative data to justify the selection of the proposed route. (§ 380.12(l)(2)(ii))

5. Identify alternative sites considered for the location of major new aboveground facilities and provide sufficient comparative data to justify the selection of the proposed site. (§ 380.12(l)(2)(ii))

Describe how the project facilities would be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to minimize potential hazard to the public from the failure of project components as a result of accidents or natural catastrophes. (§ 380.12(m))

1. For projects involving the replacement or abandonment of facilities determined to have PCBs, provide a statement that activities would comply with an approved EPA disposal permit or with the requirements of the TSCA. (§ 380.12(n)(1))

2. For compressor station modifications on sites that have been determined to have soils contaminated with PCBs, describe the status of remediation efforts completed to date. (§ 380.12(n)(2))

Provide all the listed detailed engineering materials. (§ 380.12(o))
