
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter W - Revised General Rules
#### PART 381 - FEES
##### Subpart C - Fees Applicable to General Activities
###### ยง 381.305 Interpretations by the Office of the General Counsel.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the fee established for a written interpretation by the Office of the General Counsel of any statute or implementing regulation under the jurisdiction of the Commission is $10,320. The fee must be submitted in accordance with subpart A of this part and ยง 385.1901 or ยง 388.104 of this chapter.

(b) No fee is necessary to file a request for a written interpretation by the Office of the General Counsel that solely concerns matters under Part I of the Federal Power Act.

(c) A person claiming the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section must file an original and two copies of a petition for exemption in lieu of a fee along with the request for a written interpretation. The petition for exemption should summarize the issues raised in the request for a legal opinion and explain why the exemption is applicable. The Commission or its designee will analyze each petition to determine whether the petition has met the standards for exemption and will notify the applicant whether it is granted or denied. If the petition is denied, the applicant will have 30 days from the date of notification of the denial to submit the appropriate fee to the Commission.
