
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart G - Application for License for Minor Water Power Projects and Major Water Power Projects 10 Megawatts or Less
###### ยง 4.61 Contents of application.
####### General instructions,Entry upon land.

(a)-(1)No work may be started on any proposed project works until the applicant receives a signed license from the Commission. Acceptance of an application does not authorize entry upon public lands or reservations of the United States for any purpose. The applicant should determine whether any additional Federal, state, or local permits are required.

(2) Exhibits F and G must be submitted on separate drawings. Drawings for Exhibits F and G must have identifying title blocks and bear the following certification: "This drawing is a part of the application for license made by the undersigned this ______________ day of ______________, 19____."

(3) Each application for a license for a water power project 10 megawatts or less must include the information requested in the initial statement and lettered exhibits described by paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, and must be provided in the form specified. The Commission reserves the right to require additional information, or another filing procedure, if data provided indicate such action to be appropriate.
