
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Pleadings, Tariff and Rate Filings, Notices of Tariff or Rate Examination, Orders To Show Cause, Intervention, and Summary Disposition
###### ยง 385.215 Amendment of pleadings and tariff or rate filings (Rule 215).
####### General rules.

(a)(1) Any participant, or any person who has filed a timely motion to intervene which has not been denied, may seek to modify its pleading by filing an amendment which conforms to the requirements applicable to the pleading to be amended.

(2) A tariff or rate filing may be amended or modified only as provided in the regulations under this chapter. A tariff or rate filing may not be amended, except as allowed by statute. The procedures provided in this section do not apply to amendment of tariff or rate filings.

(3)(i) If a written amendment is filed in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, that is not set for hearing under subpart E, the amendment becomes effective as an amendment on the date filed.

(ii) If a written amendment is filed in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, which is set for hearing under subpart E, that amendment is effective on the date filed only if the amendment is filed more than five days before the earlier of either the first prehearing conference or the first day of evidentiary hearings.

(iii) If, in a proceeding, or part of a proceeding, that is set for hearing under subpart E, a written amendment is filed after the time for filing provided under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, or if an oral amendment is made to a presiding officer during a hearing or conference, the amendment becomes effective as an amendment only as provided under paragraph (d) of this section.
