
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart D - Discovery Procedures for Matters Set for Hearing Under Subpart E
###### ยง 385.404 Depositions during proceedings (Rule 404).
####### Notice.

(b)(1) A participant seeking to take a deposition under this section must provide to all other participants written notice reasonably in advance of the deposition. The notice must be filed with the Commission and served on all participants. An original must be served on each person whose deposition is sought.

(2) A notice of intent under this section must:

(i) State the time and place at which the deposition will be taken, the name and address of each person to be examined, and the subject matter of the deposition; and

(ii) If known at the time that the deposition is noticed that its purpose is to preserve testimony, state that the deponent will be unable to testify at the hearing.

(3)(i) A notice of intent under this section or a subpoena under Rule 409 may name as the deponent a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or a governmental agency, and describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. Such organization must, in response, designate one or more officers, directors, or managing agents, or other persons to testify on its behalf, and set forth, for each person designated, the matters on which that person will testify.

(ii) A subpoena must advise any organization that is named as a deponent but is not a participant that it has a duty to designate a person to testify. Any person designated under this section must testify on matters known by, or reasonably available to, the organization.
