
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Conferences, Settlements, and Stipulations
###### ยง 385.604 Alternative means of dispute resolution (Rule 604).
####### Submission of proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution.

(d)(1) The participants may at any time submit a written proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution to resolve all or part of any matter in controversy or anticipated to be in controversy before the Commission.

(2) For matters set for hearing under subpart E of this part, a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution must be filed with the presiding administrative law judge.

(3) For all other matters, a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution may be filed with the Secretary for consideration by the appropriate decisional authority.

(4) The appropriate decisional authority will issue an order, approving or denying, under the guidelines in Rule 604(a) (2) and (3), a proposal to use alternative means of dispute resolution. Denial of a proposal to use alternative dispute resolution will be in the form of an order and will identify the specific reasons for the denial. A proposal to use alternative dispute resolution is deemed approved unless an order denying approval is issued within 30 days after the proposal is filed.

(5) Any request to modify a previously-approved ADR proposal must follow the same procedure used for the initial approval.
