
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Conferences, Settlements, and Stipulations
###### ยง 385.605 Arbitration (Rule 605).
####### Arbitration proceedings.

(d)(1) The arbitrator will set a time and place for the hearing on the dispute and must notify the participants not less than 5 days before the hearing.

(2) Any participant wishing that there be a record of the hearing must:

(i) Prepare the record;

(ii) Notify the other participants and the arbitrator of the preparation of the record;

(iii) Furnish copies to all identified participants and the arbitrator; and

(iv) Pay all costs for the record, unless the participants agree otherwise or the arbitrator determines that the costs should be apportioned.

(3)(i) Participants to the arbitration are entitled to be heard, to present evidence material to the controversy, and to cross-examine witnesses appearing at the hearing to the same extent as in a proceeding under Subpart E of this part;

(ii) The arbitrator may, with the consent of the participants, conduct all or part of the hearing by telephone, television, computer, or other electronic means, if each participant has an opportunity to participate.

(iii) The hearing must be conducted expeditiously and in an informal manner.

(iv) The arbitrator may receive any oral or documentary evidence, except that irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or privileged evidence may be excluded by the arbitrator.

(v) The arbitrator will interpret and apply relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, legal precedents, and policy directives.
