
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Decisions
###### ยง 385.711 Exceptions and briefs on and opposing exceptions after initial decision (Rule 711).
####### Exceptions.

(a)(1)(i) Any participant may file with the Commission exceptions to the initial decision in a brief on exceptions not later than 30 days after service of the initial decision.

(ii) Not later than 20 days after the latest date for filing a brief on exceptions, any participant may file a brief opposing exceptions in response to a brief on exceptions.

(iii) A participant may file, within the time set for filing briefs opposing exceptions, a brief on exceptions solely for the purpose of incorporating by reference one or more numbered exceptions contained in the brief of another participant. A brief filed under this clause need not comply with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) A brief on exceptions or a brief opposing exceptions may not exceed 100 pages, unless the Chief Administrative Law Judge, upon motion, changes the page limitation.

(3) The Secretary may extend, on motion or upon direction of the Commission, the time limits for any brief on or opposing exceptions. No additional briefs are permitted, unless specifically ordered by the Commission.

(4) A participant may not attach to, or incorporate by reference in, any brief on exceptions or brief opposing exceptions any portion of an initial or reply brief filed in the proceeding.
