
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Decisions
###### ยง 385.715 Interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers (Rule 715).
####### Motion to the presiding officer to permit appeal.

(b)(1) Any participant in a proceeding may, during the proceeding, move that the presiding officer permit appeal to the Commission from a ruling of the presiding officer. The motion must be made within 15 days of the ruling of the presiding officer and must state why prompt Commission review is necessary under the standards of paragraph (a) of this section

(2) Upon receipt of a motion to permit appeal under subparagraph (a)(1) of this section, the presiding officer will determine, according to the standards of paragraph (a) of this section, whether to permit appeal of the ruling to the Commission. The presiding officer need not consider any answer to this motion.

(3) Any motion to permit appeal to the Commission of an order issued under Rule 604, or appeal of a ruling under paragraph (a) or (b) of Rule 905, must be granted by the presiding officer.

(4) A presiding officer must issue an order, orally or in writing, containing the determination made under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the date of the action taken.

(5) If the presiding officer permits appeal, the presiding officer will transmit to the Commission:

(i) A memorandum which sets forth the relevant issues and an explanation of the rulings on the issues; and

(ii) the participant's motion under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and any answer permitted to the motion.

(6) If the presiding officer does not issue an order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 15 days after the motion is filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the motion is denied.
