
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Decisions
###### ยง 385.715 Interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers (Rule 715).
####### Appeal of a presiding officer's denial of motion to permit appeal.

(c)(1) If a motion to permit appeal is denied by the presiding officer, the participant who made the motion may appeal the denial to the Commissioner who is designated Motions Commissioner, in accordance with this paragraph. For purposes of this section, "Motions Commissioner" means the Chairman or a member of the Commission designated by the Chairman to rule on motions to permit interlocutory appeal. Any person filing an appeal under this paragraph must serve separate copies of the appeal on the Motions Commissioner and on the General Counsel by Express Mail or by hand delivery.

(2) A participant must submit an appeal under this paragraph not later than 7 days after the motion to permit appeal under paragraph (b) of this section is denied. The appeal must state why prompt Commission review is necessary under the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The appeal must be labeled in accordance with ยง 385.2002(b) of this chapter.

(3) A participant who appeals under this paragraph must file with the appeal a copy of the written order denying the motion or, if the denial was issued orally, the relevant portions of the transcript.

(4) The Motions Commissioner may, in considering an appeal under this paragraph, order the presiding officer or any participant in the proceeding to provide additional information.

(5) The Motions Commissioner will permit an appeal to the Commission under this paragraph only if the Motions Commissioner finds extraordinary circumstances which make prompt Commission review of the contested ruling necessary to prevent detriment to the public interest or to prevent irreparable harm to a person. If the Motions Commissioner makes no determination within 7 days after filing the appeal under this paragraph or within the time the Motions Commissioner otherwise provides to receive and consider information under this paragraph, the appeal to the Commission under paragraph (b) of this section will not be permitted.

(6) If appeal under paragraph (b) of this section is not permitted, the contested ruling of the presiding officer will be reviewed in the ordinary course of the proceeding as if the appeal had not been made.

(7) If the Motions Commissioner permits an appeal to the Commission, the Secretary will issue an order containing that decision.
