
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart I - Commission Review of Remedial Orders
###### ยง 385.905 Stay of contested order (Rule 905).

(a) Upon commencement of a proceeding, the contested order will be automatically stayed pending review pursuant to this subpart unless and until, upon request of the Secretary or other participant, the presiding officer finds that the public interest requires immediate compliance with the contested order.

(b) The Secretary or other participants may at any time prior to the hearing under Rule 909 (Hearing), if requested; or, if there is no hearing, within 30 days of the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (Commencement of proceeding); file a petition requesting that the contested order not be stayed, or that the stay be lifted, and setting forth the legal and factual basis for the request.

(c) The presiding officer may request a written statement of the views of participants regarding whether the contested order should be stayed or continue to be stayed and may convene an expedited hearing or conference on a petition under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) The presiding officer may grant the petition requesting immediate compliance where he finds that the public interest so requires and will notify the participants of the determination.

(e) If the presiding officer does not grant the petition under paragraph (b) of this section within 10 days after it is filed, the petition is denied. Prior to the expiration of the 10-day period the presiding officer may extend the period for decision for up to 7 days. At the end of the extension, the petition, if not granted, is denied.

(f) If the petition under paragraph (b) of this section is denied, the presiding officer will notify the participants of such denial.

(g) A grant or denial of petition under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section may be appealed, within 10 days after the grant or denial, to the Commission in accordance with Rule 715 (relating to interlocutory appeals). The contested order will remain stayed pending the Commission's disposition of the appeal.
