
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart I - Commission Review of Remedial Orders
###### ยง 385.906 Pleadings (Rule 906).
####### By interveners.

(c)(1) A person qualifying under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, may request the presiding officer to permit intervention in the proceeding under this subpart in accordance with the procedures described in this paragraph.

(2) A motion to intervene may be filed by any person claiming:

(i) An interest which may be directly affected and which is not adequately protected by existing parties and as to which the persons requesting intervention may be bound by the Commissions action in the proceeding; or

(ii) Any other interest of such nature that participation by the person requesting intervention may be in the public interest.

(3) A motion to intervene must set forth clearly and concisely the facts from which the nature of the requester's alleged right or interest can be determined, the grounds of the proposed intervention, and the position of the intervener in the proceeding, so as fully and completely to advise the participants and the presiding officer as to the specific issues of fact or law to be raised or controverted, by admitting, denying, or otherwise answering, specifically and in detail, each material allegation of fact or law raised or controverted, including references to the authorities upon which the requester relies, including, but not limited to, regulations, rulings, interpretations, and decisions on appeals and exceptions issued by the Department or its predecessor agencies and precedents established by the Commission.

(4) Motions to intervene may be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, for the presiding officer, within 20 days after the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (commencement of proceedings) unless, in extraordinary circumstances and for good cause shown, the presiding officer authorizes a late filing. A person requesting intervention must serve the motion to intervene on the participants in the proceeding at the same time the request is filed with the Secretary of the Commission.

(5) A participant in the proceedings may file an answer to a motion to intervene. Failure to object constitutes a waiver of any objection to the granting of such request. If made, answers must be filed within 15 days after the filing of the request to intervene.

(6) After expiration of the time for filing answers to requests to intervene or default thereof, as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the presiding officer will grant or deny such request, in whole or in part, or may, if found to be appropriate, authorize limited participation. The presiding officer will serve the determination on a motion to intervene upon the participants in the proceeding and upon the person requesting intervention. A person wholly or partially denied intervention may take an interlocutory appeal of the order denying intervention, under Rule 715 (interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers), and will be considered a "participant" (as that term is defined in Rule 102(b) (definitions)) for the limited purpose of permitting that person to file an interlocutory appeal under Rule 715 (interlocutory appeals to the Commission from rulings of presiding officers) contesting denial, in whole or in part, of that person's motion to intervene.

(7) A person filing a motion to intervene, may request therein the permission of the presiding officer to raise new facts or issues not raised in the prior proceedings on the contested order, if the new facts or issues meet the criteria set forth in Rule 903(c) (request for nondisclosure of information). Failure by the person requesting permission to intervene to request permission to raise new facts or issues in the motion to intervene constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.

(8) A person filing a motion to intervene may request the permission of the presiding officer to conduct discovery, subject to the conditions set forth in Rule 908(c) (discovery). Failure by the person requesting permission to intervene to request permission to conduct discovery in the motion to intervene constitutes a waiver of the opportunity to do so at a later time in the proceeding.
