
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart I - Commission Review of Remedial Orders
###### ยง 385.909 Hearing (Rule 909).

(a) Participant may file, within 20 days after the commencement of the proceeding under Rule 904 (Commencement of proceeding), a request for a hearing or a motion for the opportunity for cross-examination including the reasons why cross-examination is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.

(b) If a participant has filed a request for a hearing, the presiding officer will grant the request for a hearing. The hearing will include an opportunity for the submission of oral or documentary evidence and oral arguments.

(c) The presiding officer may at any time, convene a hearing.

(d) As soon as practicable after receiving a request for hearing under paragraph (a) of this section or after determination that a hearing will be held under paragraph (c) of this section, the presiding officer will give notice to the participants of the time and place of the hearing.

(e) The presiding officer will determine the issues to be resolved in the proceeding, may specify the time available for oral argument, and will give notice thereof to the participants. The presiding officer may require additional information from the participants, and may convene a prehearing conference for the purpose of determining the issues or the nature of the proceeding to be held.

(f) If at any time prior to the certification of the record by the presiding officer under Rule 913 (Certification of the record), with or without a motion of a participant, the presiding officer determines that it is necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts, the presiding officer may order that the participants be afforded the opportunity for cross-examination on any facts or issues raised in the proceeding.
