
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart K - Petitions for Adjustments Under the NGPA
###### ยง 385.1104 Initial petition (Rule 1104).
####### Content.

(a)(1) The petition must contain:

(i) A full and complete statement of the relevant facts, including the documentary support pertaining to the circumstances, act or transaction that is the subject of the petition;

(ii) A complete statement of the business reasons why the relief should be granted and the business consequences that will result if the relief is denied; and

(iii) A statement specifying how the denial of relief will cause the applicant to suffer special hardship, inequity, or unfair distribution of burdens.

(2) The petition must contain a complete statement of the legal basis of the relief requested including citations to authorities relied upon to support the petition.

(3) The petition must specify the exact nature of the relief sought.

(4) The certificate of service required under Rule 2010(h) (certificate of service) must indicate the names and addresses of all persons served.

(5) The petition must include a form of notice suitable for publication in thein accordance with the specifications in ยง 385.203(d) of this part.

(6) The petition must be accompanied by the fee prescribed in ยง 381.401 of this chapter or by a petition for waiver pursuant to ยง 381.106 of this chapter.
