
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart K - Petitions for Adjustments Under the NGPA
###### ยง 385.1110 Review of initial decision and order for adjustment (Rule 1110).
####### Contested order

(i)in subpart J means the order issued by Staff granting or denying, in whole or in part, a petition for adjustment under this subpart.

(ii) "Staff" is substituted for "Secretary" in subpart J. With respect to review of an order denying a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate in the proceeding in the same manner prescribed for the Secretary in Rule 1005 (replies in reviews of adjustment denials). With respect to review of an order granting a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may not participate in the proceeding except to the extent necessary to file the list identifying the documents in the record as prescribed in paragraph (a)(2)(iii). With respect to review of an order granting in part and denying in part a petition for adjustment under this subpart, Staff may participate as prescribed in Rule 1005(a)(1) (replies), only if a petition for review has been filed which specifically seeks review of the portion of the order denying the petition for adjustment.

(iii) Within 15 days of service of the petition for review, Staff must file with the Commission a list identifying each document in the record developed in the prior proceedings on the contested order, who filed the document, and the date it was filed.

(3) A motion to intervene under Rule 1005(c) (interventions in adjustment proceedings) may be filed only by a person who sought and was denied an opportunity to participate, in the proceeding under this section. A person who did not file a motion to intervene in the Staff proceeding may file a motion for late intervention under Rule 214(d) (grant of late intervention).

(4) There is no exhaustion of administrative remedies until a request for review is filed under subpart J in accordance with this section and the review process under subpart J is completed by the issuance of an order granting or denying, in whole or in part, the relief requested.
