
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart K - Petitions for Adjustments Under the NGPA
###### ยง 385.1113 Interim relief (Rule 1113).

(a) The petitioner may at any time file a request for interim relief in a proceeding under this subpart, setting forth the legal and factual basis for the request. Service of such request must comply with the service requirements set forth in Rule 1104(b) (initial petition of adjustment request) and must be made on each person described in such rule as well as on any other party to the proceeding.

(b) The grounds for granting interim relief are:

(1)(i) A showing that irreparable injury will result in the event the interim relief is denied; and

(ii) A showing that denial of the interim relief requested will result in a more immediate special hardship or inequity to the person requesting the interim relief than the consequences that would result to other persons if the interim relief were granted; or

(2) A showing that it will be in the public interest to grant the interim relief.

(c) A party may within 10 days after the filing of the request for interim relief file a reply to the request for interim relief.

(d) Staff may request a written statement of the views of a party regarding whether the interim relief should be granted and may convene an expedited conference on the request for interim relief.

(e) If Staff has not granted the request for interim relief within 30 days after it is filed, the request is denied.

(f)(1) Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, Staff will issue an order granting or denying the request for interim relief and will notify the parties. Any grant of interim relief is subject to further modification in the order issued under Rule 1109 (orders).

(2) The Commission may, on its own motion, at any time revoke, modify, rescind, stay or take any other appropriate action concerning the order granting interim relief.
