
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart M - Cooperative Procedure with State Commissions
###### ยง 385.1302 Notice (Rule 1302).
####### By Commission.

(a)(1) Whenever there is instituted before the Commission any proceeding under either the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act, the State commission or commissions of the State or States affected thereby will be given notice thereof immediately by the Commission. As deemed necessary for an understanding of the subject matter, each such notice will be supplemented by copies of applications, complaints, petitions, or orders instituting proceedings. Each such notice given to a State commission will request that the Commission be notified within a reasonable time whether the proceeding is deemed one that should be considered under the cooperative provisions of this subpart, and, if so, to advise the Commission as to the nature of its interest in the matter, and further, to specify whether it desires a conference, the creation of a board, or a joint or concurrent hearing, as defined in this subpart and the reasons for such request.

(2) Any commission suggesting some form of such cooperative procedure should also state whether there is pending, or will be pending before it, a proceeding in which a concurrent hearing might appropriately be held and whether its proposal is for such hearing covering such proceeding and the proceeding pending before the Commission.

(3) A State commission recommending to the Commission reference of a proceeding to a board, under either the Federal Power Act or the Natural Gas Act, should state with fullness the reasons which led it to believe that such reference is desirable and in the public interest.

(4) Upon the receipt from a State commission of a communication suggesting cooperation, the Commission will consider the same, and may confer with the commission making the request and with other interested commissions, if any, in such manner as may be most suitable, and, if cooperation in the manner proposed, or in any other manner, appears to be practicable and desirable, will so advise each interested State commission, and will invite it to participate therein.
