
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart S - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 385.1901 Interpretations and interpretative rules under the NGPA (Rule 1901).
####### The interpretation.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the General Counsel will provide a copy of his or her written interpretation of the NGPA or rule as applied to the act, transaction, or circumstance presented upon the person who made the request for the interpretation and upon persons named in the request as direct participants in the act, transaction, or circumstance.

(2) The General Counsel may determine not to issue an interpretation, in which case the person who made the request and direct participants as specified in the request will be notified in writing of the decision not to issue an interpretation, and the reason for the decision.

(3) Only those persons to whom an interpretation is specifically addressed and other persons who are named in the request, who have been informed by the applicant for an interpretation of the pendency of the request and who are direct participants in the act, transaction or circumstance presented, may rely upon it. The effectiveness of an interpretation depends entirely on the accuracy of the facts presented to the General Counsel. If a material or relevant fact has been misrepresented or omitted or if any material or relevant fact changes after an interpretation is issued or if the action taken differs from the facts presented in the request, the interpretation may not be relied upon by any person.

(4) An interpretation may be rescinded or modified prospectively at any time. A rescission or modification is effected by notifying persons entitled to rely on the interpretation at the address contained in the original request.

(5) Any interpretation based on the NGPA or a rule issued thereunder in effect at the time of issuance may be relied upon only to the extent such law or rule remains in effect.

(6) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(3), (g)(4) and (g)(5) of this section, the Staff will not recommend any action to the Commission which is inconsistent with the position espoused in the interpretation. The interpretation of the General Counsel is not the interpretation of the Commission. An interpretation provided by the General Counsel is given without prejudice to the Commission's authority to consider the same or like question and to issue a declaratory order to take other action which has the effect of rescinding, revoking, or modifying the interpretation of the General Counsel.
