
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart J - Exemption of Small Conduit Hydroelectric Facilities
###### ยง 4.92 Contents of exemption application.
####### Exhibit A.

(c)Exhibit A must describe the small conduit hydroelectric facility and proposed mode of operation with appropriate references to Exhibits F and G. To the extent feasible the information in this exhibit may be submitted in tabular form. The following information must be included:

(1) A brief description of any conduits and associated consumptive water supply facilities, intake facilities, powerhouses, and any other structures associated with the facility.

(2) The proximate natural sources of water that supply the related conduit.

(3) The purposes for which the conduit is used.

(4) The number of generating units, including auxiliary units, the capacity of each unit, and provisions, if any, for future units.

(5) The type of each hydraulic turbine.

(6) A description of how the plant is to be operated, manually or automatically, and whether the plant is to be used for peaking.

(7) Estimations of:

(i) The average annual generation in kilowatt hours;

(ii) The average head of the plant;

(iii) The hydraulic capacity of the plant (flow through the plant) in cubic feet per second;

(iv) The average flow of the conduit at the plant or point of diversion (using best available data and explaining the sources of the data and the method of calculation); and

(v) The average amount of the flow described in paragraph (c)(7)(iv) of this section available for power generation.

(8) The planned date for beginning construction of the facility.

(9) If the hydroelectric facility discharges directly into a natural body of water and a petition for waiver of ยง 4.30(b)(30)(iv) has not been submitted, evidence that a quantity of water equal to or greater than the quantity discharged from the hydroelectric facility is withdrawn from that water body downstream into a conduit that is part of the same water supply system as the conduit on which the hydroelectric facility is located.

(10) If the hydroelectric facility discharges directly to a point of agricultural, municipal, or industrial consumption, a description of the nature and location of that point of consumption.

(11) A description of the nature and extent of any construction of a dam that would occur in association with construction of the proposed small conduit hydroelectric facility, including a statement of the normal maximum surface area and normal maximum surface elevation of any existing impoundment before and after that construction; and any evidence that the construction of the dam would occur for agricultural, municipal, or industrial consumptive purposes even if hydroelectric generating facilities were not installed.
