
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart J - Exemption of Small Conduit Hydroelectric Facilities
###### ยง 4.92 Contents of exemption application.
####### Exhibit E.

(e)This exhibit is an Environmental Report. It must be prepared pursuant to ยง 4.38 and must include the following information, commensurate with the scope and environmental impact of the facility's construction and operation:

(1) A description of the environmental setting in the vicinity of the facility, including vegetative cover, fish and wildlife resources, water quality and quantity, land and water uses, recreational use, socio-economic conditions, historical and archeological resources, and visual resources. The report must give special attention to endangered or threatened plant and animal species, critical habitats, and sites eligible for or included on the National Register of Historic Places. The applicant may obtain assistance in the preparation of this information from State natural resources agencies, the State historic preservation officer, and from local offices of Federal natural resources agencies.

(2) A description of the expected environmental impacts resulting from the continued operation of an existing small conduit hydroelectric facility, or from the construction and operation of a proposed small conduit hydroelectric facility, including a discussion of the specific measures proposed by the applicant and others to protect and enhance environmental resources and to mitigate adverse impacts of the facility on them.

(3) A description of alternative means of obtaining an amount of power equivalent to that provided by the proposed or existing facility.

(4) Any additional information the applicant considers important.
