
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Formal Requirements for Filings in Proceedings Before the Commission
###### ยง 385.2011 Procedures for filing on electronic media (Rule 2011).

(a) FERC Forms subject to the procedures provided in this section include:

(1) FERC Form No. 2, Annual report for major natural gas companies.

(2) FERC Form No. 2-A, Annual report for nonmajor natural gas companies.

(3) FERC Form No. 8, Underground gas storage report.

(4) FERC Form No. 11, Natural gas pipeline monthly statement.

(5) FERC Form No. 14, Annual report for importers and exporters of natural gas.

(6) FERC Form No. 1, Annual report of Major electric utilities, licensees and others.

(7) FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies.

(8) FERC Form No. 1-F, Annual report for Nonmajor public utilities and licensees.

(9) FERC Form No. 60, Annual report of centralized service companies.

(10) FERC Form No. 714, Annual Electric Balancing Authority Area and Planning Area Report.

(11) FERC Form No. 552, Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions.

(b) These procedures also apply to:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Certificate and abandonment applications filed under subparts A, E, and F of part 157 of this chapter.

(3) Blanket certificate applications filed under subpart G of part 284 of this chapter.
