
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 385 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart T - Formal Requirements for Filings in Proceedings Before the Commission
###### ยง 385.2011 Procedures for filing on electronic media (Rule 2011).
####### What to file.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any filing of a schedule or an update described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be submitted on electronic media.

(2) Electronic media suitable for Commission filings are listed in the instructions for each form and filings. Additionally, lists of suitable electronic media are available upon request from the Commission.

(3) With the exception of the FERC Form Nos. 1, 1-F, 2, 2-A, 6, 60, and 714, the electronic media must be accompanied by the traditional prescribed number of paper copies.

(4) The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy can be obtained at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, Division of Information Services, Washington, DC 20426.

(5) The subscription required by ยง 385.2005(a) must state that the paper copies contain the same information as contained on the electronic media, that the signer knows the contents of the paper copies and electronic media, and that the contents as stated in the copies and on the electronic media are true to the best knowledge and belief of the signer.
