
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 388 - INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
##### § 388.102 Notice of proceedings.

(a) Public sessions of the Commission for taking evidence or hearing argument; public conferences and hearings before a presiding officer; and public conferences or hearings in substantive rulemaking proceedings, will not be held except upon notice.

(b) Notice of applications, complaints, and petitions, is governed by Rule 2009 (notice) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of applications for certificates of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act is governed by § 157.9 of this chapter (notice of application). Notice of public sessions and proceedings and of meetings of the Commission is governed by Rule 2009 (notice) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of hearings and of initiation or pendency of rulemaking proceedings is governed by Rule 1903 (notice in rulemaking proceedings) in part 385 of this chapter. Notice of application under Part I of the Federal Power Act for preliminary permits and licenses is governed by §§ 4.31 and 4.81 of this chapter (acceptance or rejection and contents). Notice of proposed alterations or surrenders of license under section 6 of the Federal Power Act may be given by filing and publication in theas stated in Rule 1903 (notice in rulemaking proceedings) in part 385 of this chapter, and where deemed desirable by the Commission, by local newspaper advertisement. Notice of rates charged and changes therein is governed by the filing requirements of subchapters B and E of this chapter (regulations under the Federal Power Act and regulations under the Natural Gas Act). Other notice required by statute, rule, regulation, or order, or deemed desirable, may be given by filing and publication in theas governed by Rule 1903 in part 385 of this chapter (notice in rulemaking proceedings) or by service as governed by Rule 2010 (service) in part 385 of this chapter.
