
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 388 - INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
##### ยง 388.109 Fees for record requests.
###### Fees for records available through the Public Reference Room,General rule.

(a)-(1)The fee for finding and duplicating records available in the Commission's Public Reference Room will vary depending on the size and complexity of the request. A person can obtain a copy of the schedule of fees in person or by mail from the Public Reference Room. This schedule is also available on the Commission's Web site. Copies of documents also may be made on self-service duplicating machines located in the Public Reference Room. In addition, copies of data extracted from the Commission's files through electronic media are available on a reimbursable basis, upon written request to the Public Reference Room.

(2) Stenographic reports of Commission hearings are made by a private contractor. Interested persons may obtain copies of public hearing transcripts from the contractor at prices set in the contract, or through the search and duplication service noted above. Copies of the contract are available for public inspection in the Public Reference Room.

(3) Copies of transcripts, electronic recordings, or minutes of Commission meetings closed to public observation containing material nonexempt pursuant to ยง 375.206(f) of this chapter are also available at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.
