
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter X - Procedural Rules
#### PART 388 - INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
##### ยง 388.109 Fees for record requests.
###### Fees.

(2)(i) If documents are requested for commercial use, the Commission will charge the employee's hourly pay rate plus 16% for benefits for document search time and for document review time, and 15 cents per page for duplication. Commercial use requests are not entitled to two hours of free search time or 100 free pages of reproduction of documents.

(ii) If documents are not sought for commercial use and the request is made by an educational or non-commercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, the Commission will charge 15 cents per page for duplication. There is no charge for the first 100 pages.

(iii) For a request not described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, the Commission will charge the employees hourly pay rate plus 16 percent for benefits for document search and 15 cents per page for duplication. There is no charge for the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time will be furnished without charge.

(iv) The Director, Office of External Affairs, will normally provide documents by regular mail, with postage prepaid by the Commission. However, the requester may authorize special delivery, such as express mail, at the requester's own expense.

(v) The Commission, or its designee, may establish minimum fees below which no charges will be collected, if it determines that the costs of routine collection and processing of the fees are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fees. If total fees assessed by Commission staff for a Freedom of Information Act request are less than the appropriate threshold, the Commission may not charge the requesters.

(vi) Payment of fees must be by check or money order made payable to the U.S. Treasury.

(vii) Requesters may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Commission reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading assessment of fees, or otherwise reasonably believes that two or more requests constitute a single request, the Commission may aggregate any such requests accordingly. The Commission will not aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from a requester. Aggregated requests may qualify for an extension of time under ยง 388.110(b).
