
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart K - Exemption of Small Hydroelectric Power Projects of 10 Megawatts or Less
###### ยง 4.102 Surrender of exemption.

(a) To voluntarily surrender its exemption, a holder of an exemption for a small hydroelectric power project must file a petition with the Commission.

(b)(1) If construction has begun, prior to filing a petition with the Commission, the exemption holder must consult with the fish and wildlife agencies in accordance with ยง 4.38, substituting for the information required under ยง 4.38(b)(1) information appropriate to the disposition and restoration of the project works and lands. The petition must set forth the exemption holder's plans with respect to disposition and restoration of the project works and lands.

(2) If construction has begun, public notice of the petition will be given, and, at least 30 days thereafter, the Commission will act upon the petition. New applications involving the site may be filed on the next business day.

(c) If no construction had begun, unless the Commission issues an order to the contrary, the surrender will take effect at the close of the thirtieth day after the Commission issues a public notice of receipt of the petition. New applications involving the site may be filed on the next business day.

(d) Exemptions may be surrendered only upon fulfillment by the exemption holder of such obligations under the exemption as the Commission may prescribe and, if construction has begun, upon such conditions with respect to the disposition of such project works and restoration of project lands as may be determined by the Commission and the Federal and state fish and wildlife agencies.

(e) Where occupancy of federal lands or reservations has been permitted by a Federal agency having supervision over such lands, the exemption holder must concurrently notify that agency of the petition to surrender and of the steps that will be taken to restore the affected U.S. lands or reservations.
