
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter III - Delaware River Basin Commission
### Subchapter B - Special Regulations
#### PART 430 - GROUND WATER PROTECTION AREA: PENNSYLVANIA
##### ยง 430.15 Conservation requirements.

The following conservation requirements shall apply to all existing, new or expanded ground water withdrawals for municipal, public, industrial or commercial water supply whose cumulative daily average withdrawal from one or more wells during any calendar month exceeds 10,000 gallons.

(a) Each person, firm, corporation or other entity withdrawing ground water within the Southeastern Pennsylvania Ground Water Protected Area for purposes of municipal or public water supply shall comply with the following conservation requirements:

(1) Water connections shall be metered, and water charges collected shall be based on metered usage.

(2) A water conservation program shall be initiated and diligently pursued within the service area of the municipal or public water supply. Such program shall include a program for leakage control providing for the monitoring, prevention and repair of significant leakage, and the provision of customer information relating to water-saving devices.

(3) Interconnections with adjacent water systems shall be considered to assure more reliable supplies of water during emergencies.

(4) A drought emergency plan specifying actions which would be taken to reduce demand and assure supplies to priority uses in the event of drought conditions shall be prepared in cooperation with the municipalities in the service area. The plan shall be filed with the Commission.

(b) Each person, firm, corporation or other entity withdrawing ground water within the Southeastern Pennsylvania Ground Water Protected Area for purposes of industrial or commercial water supply shall comply with the following conservation requirements:

(1) Opportunities for water conservation shall be investigated and all feasible conservation measures shall be implemented at the earliest practicable time.

(2) Water uses shall be monitored, and a systematic process shall be adopted and implemented to provide for the detection and expeditious correction of leakage.

(3) A drought emergency plan specifying the actions to be taken to reduce demand in the event of drought conditions shall be prepared and filed with the Commission.

(c) Permits issued pursuant to these regulations shall be conditioned upon compliance with the requirements of this section.
