
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter III - Delaware River Basin Commission
### Subchapter B - Special Regulations
#### PART 430 - GROUND WATER PROTECTION AREA: PENNSYLVANIA
##### ยง 430.17 Registration of existing withdrawals.

(a) Existing users of ground water within the Southeastern Pennsylvania Ground Water Protected Area whose lawful use commenced prior to the effective date of this regulation, whose cumulative monthly average daily withdrawal from one or more wells exceeds 10,000 gallons and whose withdrawal has not previously been approved by DRBC, pursuant to section 3.8 of the Compact, shall, prior to July 1, 1981, register their use with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources acting as agent for the Commission. Registration is required as a condition for such existing users being eligible for the protection afforded by this regulation. Such registration shall include withdrawals from quarries that are not fed by surface streams.

(b) Registrations shall be filed on forms approved by the Executive Director of the Commission. Each registrant shall provide, without limitation thereto, the following:

(1) A description of the location, size and depth of each well and the pump facilities installed therein.

(2) The estimated quantity of water withdrawn from each well, or related group of wells, during each month of 1980.

(3) The purposes for which the water is withdrawn, its place of use, and the approximate quantity of water used for each purpose.

(4) The location and method of wastewater disposal and discharge.

(5) A registration fee of $5 for each well.
