
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter III - Delaware River Basin Commission
### Subchapter B - Special Regulations
#### PART 430 - GROUND WATER PROTECTION AREA: PENNSYLVANIA
##### ยง 430.19 Ground water withdrawal metering, recording, and reporting.

(a) Each person, firm, corporation, or other entity whose cumulative daily average withdrawal of ground water from a well or group of wells operated as a system exceeds 10,000 gallons per day during any 30-day period shall meter or measure and record their withdrawals and report such withdrawals to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources. Withdrawals shall be measured by means of an automatic continuous recording device, flow meter, or other method, and shall be measured to within five percent of actual flow. Meters or other methods of measurement shall be subject to approval and inspection by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources as to type, method, installation, maintenance, calibration, reading, and accuracy. Withdrawals shall at a minimum be recorded on a daily basis for public water supply use and on a biweekly basis for all other water uses, and reported as monthly totals annually. More frequent recording or reporting may be required by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources or the Commission.

(b) The following water uses and operations are exempt from the metering or measurement requirements of paragraph (a): Agricultural irrigation; snowmaking; dewatering incidental to mining and quarrying; dewatering incidental to construction; and space heating or cooling uses that are exempt from permit requirements in ยง 430.13. Except for space heating and cooling uses described herein, persons engaged in such exempt withdrawals in excess of 10,000 gallons per day during any 30-day period shall record the pumping rates and the dates and elapsed hours of operation of any well or pump used to withdraw ground water, and report such information as required in paragraph (a). Space heating and cooling uses that are exempt from permit requirements in ยง 430.13 shall also be exempt from the requirement for recording and reporting.

(c) Pursuant to section 11.5 of the Compact, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources shall administer and enforce a program for metering, recording, and reporting ground-water withdrawals in accordance with this regulation.
