
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart A - Introduction
##### ยง 701.4 Functions.

The functions of the Water Resources Council are:

(a) To maintain a continuing study and prepare periodically an assessment of the adequacy of supplies of water necessary to meet the water requirements in each water resource region in the United States and of the national interest therein.

(b) To maintain a continuing study of the relation of regional or river basin plans and programs to the requirements of larger regions of the Nation.

(c) To appraise the adequacy of administrative and statutory means for coordination and implementation of the water and related land resources policies and programs of the several Federal agencies and to make recommendations to the President with respect to Federal policies and programs.

(d) To establish, after consultation with appropriate interested Federal and non-Federal entities, and with approval of the President, principles, standards, and procedures for Federal participation in the preparation of comprehensive regional or river basin plans and for the formulation and evaluation of Federal water and related land resources projects, including primary direct navigation benefits as defined by section 7a, Pub. L. 89-670.

(e) To coordinate schedules, budgets, and programs of Federal agencies in comprehensive interagency regional or river basin planning.

(f) To carry out its responsibilities under Title II of the Act with regard to the creation, operation, and termination of Federal-State river basin commissions.

(g) To receive plans or revisions thereof submitted by river basin commissions in accordance with section 204(3) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1962b(3)), and to review and transmit them, together with its recommendations, to the President in accordance with section 104 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1962a-3).

(h) To assist the States financially in developing and participating in the development of comprehensive water and related land resources plans in accordance with Title III of the Act.

(i) To perform such other functions as the Council may be authorized by law, executive orders, regulations, or other appropriate instructions to perform.

(j) To take such actions as are necessary and proper to implement the Act and to carry out the functions enumerated herein.
