
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart B - Headquarters Organization
##### ยง 701.53 Council decisions by Members.

Council decisions by Members may be made by direct vote at Council meetings or by a written communication which may provide for either a written or telephone response. Written communications shall state the time limit for voting on issues which they contain; however, extensions of time may be granted by the Director or Chairman when it is deemed necessary. Issues raised at Council meetings shall be decided by majority vote of Members present and voting. Issues identified in written communications must receive approval of all Members. If an action item does not receive approval of all Members, it will be considered as an agenda item at the next Council meeting. For purposes of this section, approval of all Members shall be defined as approval without a negative vote within the time limit for voting provided within each action memorandum. Decisions affecting the authority or responsibility of a Member, within the meaning of section 3(b) of the Act, (42 U.S.C. 1962-1(b)), can be made only with that Member's concurrence.

(a) Each of the Members in ยง 701.5(b) shall designate in writing to the Chairman, with a copy to the Director, those individuals who may act as their Alternates in fulfilling the duties as a Member. Each Member shall designate one Alternate and one second Alternate to represent the Member on the Council.

(b) A quorum for the transaction of business at Council meetings shall consist of five or more Members and a majority shall consist of at least four votes.

(c) Each Member has equal responsibility and authority in all decisions and actions of the Council. Each Member may place an item on a meeting agenda or, acting through the Director, circulate in writing an item for Council action. Each Member, as well as each Associate Member and each Observer, shall have full access to all information relating to the performance of his duties and responsibilities.

(d) No vote shall be taken at Council meetings until each Member and Associate Member present has had full opportunity to express his views.

(e) Members shall meet regularly at least quarterly, upon the call of the Chairman, or when requested by a majority of Members.

(f) Matters specifically reserved for Council decision by Members are:

(1) Actions requiring Presidential action or approval.

(2) Approval of Annual Budget requests and the Annual Operating Program of the Office of the Water Resources Council.

(3) Decisions involving substantial policy issues.

(4) Delegations of authority.

(5) Determination that testimony taken or evidence received shall be taken under oath.

(6) Issuance of invitations to become Associate Members or Observers.

(7) Appointment and termination of the appointment of the Director.
