
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart B - Headquarters Organization
##### ยง 701.54 Interagency Liaison Committee.

There is established within the Council an Interagency Liaison Committee (hereafter referred to as ILC).

(a) The ILC shall be composed of one representative for each Member, Associate Member, and Observer. Additional agency representatives may participate in the ILC meeting whenever necessary.

(b) The chairmanship of the ILC shall rotate quarterly among the Members' representatives. Secretarial assistance shall be the responsibility of the ILC Chairman.

(c) The function of the ILC will be to provide a forum for discussion of agenda items prior to Council meetings to advise the Director of the Members' views on such agenda items, and with the Director, to develop the final agenda. It shall be the duty of the Director or his representative to brief the ILC on each agenda item at these meetings.

(d) The ILC may meet at other times upon the call of the Chairman or Director, to consider other items.

(e) Draft agenda items shall be submitted to ILC representatives at least 30 days prior to the Council meeting. The ILC shall meet at least 20 days prior to the Council meeting. Final Council agenda material shall be submitted to the Members at least 7 days prior to the Council meeting.

(f) All ILC meetings will be open except when privileged information is discussed. At such meetings only representatives of Members shall be present.
