
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart B - Headquarters Organization
##### ยง 701.77 Director - duties and responsibilities.

The Director shall serve as the principal executive officer for the Council and as the head of the staff, and shall see to the faithful execution of the policies, programs, and decisions of the Council; report thereon to the Council from time to time or as the Council may direct; administer the office and staff of the Council within the limits of the Annual Budget and the Annual Operating Program related thereto; make recommendations to the Council and the Chairman relating to the performance of their functions and the exercise of their authorities; and facilitate the work of the Council and the Chairman. His duties and responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) Acting for the Chairman, represents the Council in its relations with the Congress, States, Federal agencies, persons, or the public under the general supervision and direction of the Council.

(b) Establishes the line of succession as Acting Director among the other officers of the Council below the Deputy Director.

(c) Directs the Staff in its service to the Council and the Chairman in the performance of their functions and in the exercise of their authorities. The Director is responsible to the council for the organization of the Staff, employment and discharge of personnel, training and personnel development program, assignment of duties and responsibilities, and the conduct of its work.

(d) Insures that the quality of the work of the Staff in its studies, reports, and in other assignments is high that the professional integrity of its personnel is respected, and that its overall perspective and independence of judgment with regard to water and related land resources matters is approximately maintained within the context of the inter-agency, intergovernmental, and other staff collaboration that is both necessary and desirable in the fulfillment of the purpose of the Council as set forth in ยง 701.3.

(e) Prepares and recommends reports on legislation, Executive orders, and other documents requested of the Council.

(f) Prepares and recommends an Annual Budget request in accordance with policies, rules, and regulations applicable thereto. During its consideration by the Office of Management and Budget the President and the Congress, the Director shall seek acceptance of the proposed Annual Budget by every appropriate means. On behalf of the Council, he is authorized in his descretion to make appeals and agree to adjustments. However, to the extent that time and circumstances permit, he shall consult with and obtain the approval of the Council on all substantial appeals and adjustments.

(g) Prepares and recommends the Annual Operating Program to carry out the work of the Council, within the appropriations provided by the Congress and allowances approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

(h) Prepares and recommends proposed rules and regulations, including proposed delegations of authority, for carrying out the provisions of the Act, or other provisions of law which are administered by the Council.

(i) Prepares and recommends reports and materials for public information that are explanatory of the work and accomplishments of the Council.

(j) Appoints staff representatives to each task force established pursuant to ยง 701.58.

(k) Establishes and enforces administrative rules and regulations pertaining to the Staff consistent with applicable laws, Executive Orders, Budget Circulars, and other regulations and orders.
