
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart B - Headquarters Organization
##### ยง 701.78 Director - delegation of authorities.

(a) Under the authority of section 403 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1962d-2), the Director is delegated authority to:

(1) Hold hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, and print or otherwise reproduce and distribute so much of its proceedings and reprints thereon as he may deem advisable.

(2) Acquire, furnish, and equip such office space as is necessary.

(3) Use the U.S. mails in the same manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States.

(4) Employ and fix compensation of all personnel as the Director deems advisable in accordance with the civil service laws and the Classification Act of 1949, as amended; assign duties and responsibilities among such personnel and supervise personnel so employed.

(5) Procure services as authorized by section 15 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (5 U.S.C. 3109), at rates not in excess of the daily equivalent of the rate prescribed for grade GS-18 under section 5332 of Title 5 of the United States Code in the case of individual experts or consultants.

(6) Purchase, hire, operate, and maintain passenger motor vehicles.

(7) Utilize and expend such funds as are deemed advisable for proper administration of the authorities delegated herein. However, contract and individual modifications there of in excess of $100,000 or which involve significant policy decisions shall be submitted to the Council for approval before execution.

(8) Request any Federal department or agency (i) to furnish to the Council such information as may be necessary for carrying out its functions and as may be available to or procurable by such department or agency, and (ii) to detail personnel to temporary duty with the Council on a reimbursable basis.

(9) Make available for public inspection during ordinary office hours all appropriate records and papers of the Council.

(10) Compute and certify for payment funds to the States in accordance with standards and formula approved by the Council, and perform related functions of the Council contained in section 305 of the Act.

(11) Serve as a duly authorized representative of the Chairman of the Council for the purpose of audit and examination of any pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient of a grant under Title III of the Act, and recommend to the Chairman the appointment of further representatives as may be necessary for such function.

(12) Review, for compliance, State programs approved under Title III; conduct full inquiries as the Council may direct; and recommend for Council decision such withholding or reinstatement of payments as is appropriate and authorized by section 304 of the Act.

(13) Serve as the "responsible agency official" under part 705 of these rules and regulations.

(b) The authorities delegated in this section may be redelegated by the Director to the extent determined by him to be necessary and desirable for proper administration.
