
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart K - Exemption of Small Hydroelectric Power Projects of 10 Megawatts or Less
###### ยง 4.107 Contents of application for exemption from licensing.
####### Exhibit A.

(c)Exhibit A must describe the small hydroelectric power project and its proposed mode of operation. To the extent feasible, the information in this exhibit may be submitted in tabular form. The applicant must submit the following information:

(1) A brief description of any existing dam and impoundment proposed to be utilized by the small hydroelectric power project and any other existing or proposed project works and appurtenant facilities, including intake facilities, diversion structures, powerhouses, primary transmission lines, penstocks, pipelines, spillways, and other structures, and the sizes, capacities, and construction materials of those structures.

(2) The number of existing and proposed generating units at the project, including auxiliary units, the capacity of each unit, any provisions for future units, and a brief description of any plans for retirement or rehabilitation of existing generating units.

(3) The type of each hydraulic turbine of the small hydroelectric power project.

(4) A description of how the power plant is to be operated, that is, run-of-river or peaking.

(5) A graph showing a flow duration curve for the project. Identify stream gauge(s) and period of record used. If a synthetic record is utilized, provide details concerning its derivation. Furnish justification for selection of installed capacity if the hydraulic capacity of proposed generating unit(s) plus the minimum flow requirements, if not usable for power production, is less than the stream flow that is exceeded 25 percent of the time.

(6) Estimations of:

(i) The average annual generation in kilowatt-hours;

(ii) The average and design head of the power plant;

(iii) The hydraulic capacity of each turbine of the power plant (flow through the plant) in cubic feet per second;

(iv) The number of surface acres of the man-made or natural impoundment used, if any, at its normal maximum surface elevation and its net and gross storage capacities in acre-feet.

(7) The planned date for beginning and completing the proposed construction or development of generating facilities.

(8) A description of the nature and extent of any repair, reconstruction, or other modification of a dam that would occur in association with construction or development of the proposed small hydroelectric power project, including a statement of the normal maximum surface area and normal maximum surface elevation of any existing impoundment before and after construction.
