
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart D - Availability of Information
##### ยง 701.204 Time limits for WRC initial determinations regarding requests for information.

(a) An initial determination to grant or deny each request for information will be made within ten (10) working days of receipt of such request.

(b) The requester shall be notified immediately of the initial determination and the reasons therefor.

(c) The Public Information Officer will make initial determinations to grant requests for information.

(1) In those instances where the initial determination by the Public Information Officer is to grant the request and the information is immediately supplied such action will serve as both notice of determination and compliance with the request.

(2) In those instances where the initial determination by the Public Information Officer is to grant the request, but the information is not immediately available, the Public Information Officer will send immediate notice of the determination to comply, and the approximate date the information will be forwarded.

(d) The Public Information Officer will make initial determination to deny the requests only with the concurrence of the General Counsel. The requester shall be notified immediately of the initial adverse determination, the reasons therefor, and the right to appeal the initial adverse determination to the Director.
