
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 701 - COUNCIL ORGANIZATION
#### Subpart E - Protection of Privacy
##### ยง 701.309 Appeal of initial adverse determination.

(a) Any individual whose request for a correction or amendment, requested by him, to a record has been denied, in whole or in part, may appeal that decision to the Director of the Council.

(b) The appeal will be in writing and will:

(1) Name the individual making the appeal;

(2) Identify the record sought to be amended;

(3) Name the record system in which that record is contained;

(4) Contain a short statement describing the amendment sought; and

(5) State the name and location of the Council official who made the initial adverse determination.

(c) Not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after the date on which the Council received the appeal, the Director will complete his review of the appeal and make a final decision thereon. However, for good cause shown, the Director may extend that 30 day period by not more than an additional 30 working days. If the Director so extends the period, he will promptly notify the individual requesting the review that the extension has been made and the reasons therefor.

(d) After review of an appeal request, the agency will send a written notice to the requester containing the following information:

(1) The decision and, if the denial is upheld, the reasons for the decision; and

(2) The specific civil remedies available to the requester as per section 2(g) of Pub. L. 93-579, as well as notice that additional remedies may be appropriate and available to enable the full exercise of the requester's rights at law.

(3) The right to file with the Council a concise statement setting forth the requester's reasons for disagreement with the Council's refusal to correct or amend the record.
