
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 706 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 706.208 Indebtedness.

(a) An employee shall pay each just financial obligation in a proper and timely manner, especially one imposed by law, such as Federal, State, or local taxes. For the purpose of this section, a "just financial obligation" means one acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgment by a court or one imposed by law such as Federal, State or local taxes.

(b) When an employee has a levy placed against his salary for failure to pay an indebtedness for Federal income taxes, he shall be issued a written reprimand stating that failure to make satisfactory arrangements regarding future tax liabilities will be grounds for removal.

(c) When an employee is the subject of a letter of complaint stating that he has not paid his State or local taxes and has failed to make satisfactory arrangements regarding the debt, he shall be interviewed by the Assistant Director, Division of Program Coordination and Management. In this interview he shall be instructed to make satisfactory arrangements for the payment of his debt immediately and informed that failure to do so will be grounds for removal.

(d) When an employee is the subject of a letter of complaint regarding any other kind of indebtedness to a unit of government, Federal, State, or local, the procedure prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section shall be observed.

(e) When a creditor who holds a legal judgment against an employee requests that the Council assist in collecting the debt, the employee shall be interviewed by the Assistant Director, Division of Program Coordination and Management. In this interview he shall be instructed to pay the debt in full within 90 days, or within whatever longer period is specified by the Assistant Director, Division of Program Coordination and Management if he determines that a 90-day limit would impose undue hardship on the employee, and informed that failure to do so will be grounds for removal.

(f) When an employee is the subject of a letter of complaint from a creditor who does not hold a legal judgment against the employee, the Assistant Director, Division of Program Coordination and Management shall forward a copy of the letter to the employee together with a memorandum calling the employee's attention to the provisions of this section. However, the Council will not assist the creditor in collecting the debt.
