
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 706 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 706.212 Miscellaneous statutory provisions.

The attention of each employee is directed to the following statutory provisions:

(a) House Concurrent Resolution 175, 85th Congress, 2d Session, 72 Stat. B12, the Code of Ethics for Government Service.

(b) Chapter 11 of Title 18, United States Code, relating to bribery, graft and conflicts of interest.

(c) The prohibition against lobbying with appropriated funds (18 U.S.C. 1913).

(d) The prohibitions against disloyalty and striking (E.O. 10450, 18 U.S.C. 1918).

(e) The prohibition against the employment of a member of a Communist organization (50 U.S.C. 784).

(f) The prohibitions against:

(1) The disclosure of classified information (18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 783); and

(2) The disclosure of confidential information (18 U.S.C. 1905).

(g) The provision relating to the habitual use of intoxicants to excess (5 U.S.C. 7352).

(h) The prohibition against the misuse of a Government vehicle (31 U.S.C. 638a(c)).

(i) The prohibition against the misuse of the franking privilege (18 U.S.C. 1719).

(j) The prohibition against the use of deceit in an examination or personnel action in connection with Government employment (18 U.S.C. 1917).

(k) The prohibition against fraud or false statements in a Government matter (18 U.S.C. 1001).

(l) The prohibition against mutilating or destroying a public record (18 U.S.C. 2071).

(m) The prohibition against counterfeiting and forging transportation requests (18 U.S.C. 508).

(n) The prohibitions against:

(1) Embezzlement of Government money or property (18 U.S.C. 641);

(2) Failing to account for public money (18 U.S.C. 643); and

(3) Embezzlement of the money or property of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of his employment (18 U.S.C. 654).

(o) The prohibition against unauthorized use of documents relating to claims from or by the Government (18 U.S.C. 285).

(p) The prohibitions against political activities in Subchapter III of Chapter 73 of Title 5, United States Code and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 608.

(q) The provision relating to the denial of the right to petition Congress (5 U.S.C. 7102).

(r) The prohibition against an employee acting as the agent of a foreign principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (18 U.S.C. 219).

(s) The prohibition against a public official appointing or promoting a relative, or advocating such an appointment or promotion (5 U.S.C. 3110).

(t) The prohibition against the employment of an individual convicted of felonious rioting or related offenses (5 U.S.C. 7313).

(u) The tax imposed on certain employees (e.g., Presidential appointees, employees excepted under Schedule C, employees in GS-16 or above, or a comparable pay level) who knowingly engage in self-dealing with a private foundation (26 U.S.C. 4941, 4946). "Self-dealing" is defined in the statute to include certain transactions involving an employee's receipt of pay, a loan, or reimbursement for travel or other expenses from, or his sale to or purchase of property from a private foundation.
