
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 706 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart D - Statements of Employment and Financial Interests
##### § 706.412 Submission of statements by special Government employees.

(a) Each special Government employee shall submit a statement of employment and financial interests not later than the time of his employment. Each special Government employee shall keep his statement current throughout his period of employment by the submission of supplementary statements.

(b) A special Government employee shall submit his statement of employment and financial interests in the format prescribed by the Division of Management. The statement will be filed with the Division of Management and is accorded the confidentiality prescribed in § 706.410.

(c) The provisions of §§ 706.406 through 706.411 apply to special Government employees in the same manner as to employees.

(d) The Director may waive the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section for the submission of a statement of employment and financial interests in the case of a special Government employee who is not a consultant or an expert when he finds that the duties of the position held by that special Government employee are of a nature and at such a level of responsibility that the submission of the statement by the incumbent is not necessary to protect the integrity of the Government. For the purposes of this paragraph "consultant" and "expert" have the meanings given those terms by Chapter 304 of the Federal Personnel Manual.
