
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 740 - STATE WATER MANAGEMENT PLANNING PROGRAM
#### ยง 740.3 State applications.

(a) The Council shall invite the Governor of each State to submit a State application.

(b) To be eligible for financial assistance under this part, a State shall submit to the Council an original and two copies of a State application executed by the Governor or designee. The State application shall be submitted not later than 90 days from the date of the Council's invitation.

(c) The program application package shall consist of:

(1) The forms and instructions for completing the application;

(2) The criteria to be used by the Council in assessing need for water management planning funds;

(3) Information on the applicable Federal requirements for administering the program; and

(4) Other information pertinent to the application.

(d) A State application shall contain:

(1) The name and address of the designated State agency;

(2) A description of the comprehensive State water management planning program, or modifications thereto, as required by ยง 740.4(a);

(3) A work plan of the major program activities of the State water management planning program which targets milestones on a semi-annual basis;

(4) A budget and corresponding narrative in accordance with the forms and instructions provided by the Council;

(5) A notice of concurrence by the State clearinghouse in accordance with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-95;

(6) The manner in which the general public is involved in the development and modification of the State program; and

(7) A brief description of activities, in order of priority, which would be carried out if additional funds were made available during the grant period under the provisions of ยง 740.6(e). This may include supplementing or complementing ongoing activities described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(e) The Governor or designee may request an extension to the submission date by submitting a written request to the Council not less than 30 days prior to the date referred to in paragraph (b) of this section. The extension shall be granted only if, in the Council's judgment, acceptable and substantial justification is shown and the extension would further the objectives of the Act. An extension shall not be granted for more than 30 days.
