
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VI - Water Resources Council
### PART 740 - STATE WATER MANAGEMENT PLANNING PROGRAM
#### ยง 740.5 Review and approval of State applications and programs.

(a) The Council shall review and approve each State application for financial assistance if it is determined that:

(1) The State water management planning program meets the objectives of the Act;

(2) The State application and the State water management planning program meet the requirements of this part; and

(3) Progress on the previous grant period's work plan is satisfactory, based on the requirements set forth by the Council.

(b) Based on the review of the application, the Council shall determine the amount of funds to be made available pursuant to ยง 740.6 and shall notify the designated agency in each participating State of the grant award as soon as possible after funds are apportioned for Council use.

(c) If an application is not approved by the Council, it shall be returned by registered mail with a full explanation of the reasons for that determination. The State shall then be allowed the opportunity to submit a revised application within 30 days after receipt by the State of such notification. Should the State determine that further review is required by the State clearinghouse under OMB Circular A-95, an additional 30 days will be allowed.

(d) If the grant amount requested by a State differs from the grant amount offered by the Council, the Council will request the designated State agency to submit a revised budget and work plan with the acceptance of the grant offer.

(e) The State, upon acceptance of the terms and conditions of the notice of grant award, as presented by the Council, will be granted financial assistance in the amount of the approved final budget.

(f) The work plan for the State water management planning program may be revised at any time by submitting revisions to the work plan and budget to the Council for approval in connection with any proposed significant change (an addition or deletion of major activities specified in the approved work plan) with appropriate provision for A-95 State clearinghouse review. The Council will review the proposed revision and notify the State of its decision no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the request.
