
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 801 - GENERAL POLICIES
#### ยง 801.5 Comprehensive plan.

(a) The Compact requires that the Commission formulate and adopt a comprehensive plan for the immediate and long-range development and use of the water resources of the basin.

(1) The plan will include existing and proposed public and private programs, projects, and facilities which are required, in the judgment of the Commission, to meet present and future water resources needs of the basin. Consideration shall be given to the effect of the plan, or any part of the plan, on the receiving waters of the Chesapeake Bay. The Commission shall consult with interested public bodies and public utilities and fully consider the findings and recommendations of the signatory parties, their various subdivisions and interested groups. Prior to adoption of the plan the Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing in each signatory State.

(2) The plan will reflect consideration, of the multiobjectives of national economy, regional development and environmental quality; and multipurpose use of projects.

(3) Water quantity and water quality planning will be studied together and correlated to the extent feasible, with existing and proposed land uses. The development of a basinwide land use study to enable full consideration of basic and alternative proposals to meet water resources needs will be explored.

(4) An important phase of the plan formulation process is a thorough review and evaluation of the Susquehanna River Basin Coordinating Committee Study report, pertinent plans and reports of the signatories, including water quality standards and other data available. The findings and recommendations presented in the Susquehanna River Basin Coordinating Committee Study report will be considered for incorporation in the Commission's plan to the extent they are feasible and compatible with the current and projected needs and interests.

(5) Essentially the comprehensive plan will reflect the findings of an analysis of a mix of alternative futures for industrial, agricultural, residential, and recreational development in the basin.

(6) The Commission will act diligently to promote Federal, State, local governmental, and private sector cooperation and coordination in the implementation of the adopted plan. It is expected that recommended development programs will be undertaken by the signatories, local governmental agencies, or private interests. If expeditious action by others is not forthcoming or is not possible the Commission will act in accordance with the Compact to implement programs, projects, and standards to the extent necessary to further the aims of the comprehensive plan.

(b) The comprehensive plan shall provide for the immediate and long-range use, development, conservation, preservation, and management of the water resources of the basin. The plan will be presented in a form and order as determined by the Commission and shall include, but not be limited to the following:

(1) Statement of authority, purpose, objectives, and scope.

(2) Description of the physical and human environment.

(3) Inventory of the basin's water resources and existing developments and facilities.

(4) Projection of immediate and long-range water resources needs of the basin.

(5) Description of a general system of measures and programs, including water quality and other standards as determined necessary, and reasonable alternatives considered essential to and capable of satisfying water resources needs into the reasonably foreseeable future.

(6) Criteria used for review and acceptance of projects within the plan.

(7) Procedures for updating and modifying the plan.

(8) Necessary appendices.
