
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 806.4 Projects requiring review and approval.
###### Withdrawals.

(2)Any project, including all of its sources, described in this paragraph (a)(2) shall require an application to be submitted in accordance with § 806.13, and shall be subject to the standards set forth in §§ 806.21 and 806.23. Hydroelectric projects, except to the extent that such projects involve a withdrawal, shall be exempt from the requirements of this section regarding withdrawals; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph (a)(2) shall be construed as exempting hydroelectric projects from review and approval under any other category of project requiring review and approval as set forth in this section, § 806.5, or 18 CFR part 801.

(i) Any project initiated on or after July 13, 1978 for groundwater or November 11, 1995 for surface water withdrawing a consecutive 30-day average of 100,000 gpd or more from a groundwater or surface water source, or any project initiated after January 1, 2007 withdrawing a consecutive 30-day average of 100,000 gpd or more from a combination of sources.

(ii) Any new source added to projects with previously approved withdrawals by the Commission.

(iii) Any withdrawal increased above that amount which was previously approved by the Commission.

(iv) With respect to projects with grandfathered withdrawals:

(A) Registered in accordance with subpart E of this part that increases its withdrawal by any amount over the quantity determined under § 806.44;

(B) Increasing its withdrawal individually or in combination from all sources to an average of 100,000 gpd or more in any consecutive 30-day period; or

(C) That failed to register its withdrawals in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(v) Any project, regardless of when initiated, involving a withdrawal of a consecutive 30-day average of 100,000 gpd or more, from either groundwater or surface water sources, or in combination from both, and undergoing a change of ownership, unless such project satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section or the existing Commission approval for such project is transferred pursuant to § 806.6.
