
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 806.6 Transfer of approvals.

(a) An existing Commission approval may be transferred to a new project sponsor by the Executive Director provided:

(1) The application for transfer is submitted within 90 days of a transfer or change in ownership of a project.

(2) The new project sponsor operates the project subject to the same terms and conditions of the existing approval pending approval of the transfer application.

(3) Any noncompliance by the existing project sponsor associated with the project or by the new project sponsor associated with other projects is resolved to the Commission's satisfaction.

(4) If the existing approval is greater than 10 years old, the transfer shall be conditioned to require the submission of an updated metering and monitoring plan consistent with the requirements of § 806.30.

(5) If the existing project has an unapproved withdrawal, consumptive use and/or diversion listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the transfer shall be conditioned to require the submission of a new application for review and approval of the unapproved withdrawal, consumptive use and/or diversion consistent with §§ 806.4 and 806.14 and paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) Any modifications proposed by the new project sponsor shall be subject to a separate application and review process under §§ 806.14 and 806.18.

(b) Previously unapproved activities associated with a project subject to transfer under paragraph (a) of this section include:

(1) The project has an associated pre-compact consumptive water use that has not had mitigation approved by the Commission.

(2) The project has an associated diversion that was initiated prior to January 23, 1971.

(3) Projects registered under subpart E of this part.

(c) Upon undergoing a change of name that does not affect ownership or control of the project, the project sponsor must request a reissuance of the project's approval by the Executive Director within 90 days from the date of the change.

(d) Any unapproved activities associated with a transferred project shall be subject to the following:

(1) The transfer approval shall be conditioned to include monitoring requirements under § 806.30 for all previously unapproved sources and activities.

(2) The transfer approval may include any other conditions consistent with this part deemed necessary by the Executive Director.

(3) The approved transfer will act as the unapproved activity's temporary approval for a period of five years, at which point, the project sponsor shall submit an application for review and approval consistent with subpart B of this part.

(4) The Executive Director may require hydrogeologic evaluation under § 806.12 and/or formal review and approval of any of the previously unapproved sources sooner if those sources show a substantial likelihood of environmental harm, interference with other water users or water availability issues.
