
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart B - Application Procedure
##### ยง 806.12 Hydrogeologic evaluation.

Evaluation of groundwater withdrawal projects requires a hydrogeologic evaluation, which may be an aquifer test in accordance with an approved plan or an alternative hydrogeologic evaluation in conformance with this section.

(a) Prior to submission of an application pursuant to ยง 806.13, a project sponsor seeking approval for a new groundwater withdrawal, a renewal of an expiring groundwater withdrawal, or an increase of a groundwater withdrawal shall perform an aquifer test.

(b) Unless an alternative hydrogeologic evaluation method is approved, the project sponsor shall prepare an aquifer test plan for prior review and approval by Commission staff before testing is undertaken. Such plan shall include a groundwater availability analysis to determine the availability of water during a 1-in-10-year recurrence interval.

(c) Unless otherwise specified, approval of a test plan is valid for two years from the date of approval.

(d) Approval of a test plan shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Commission to require additional testing or monitoring.

(e) The project sponsor may be required, at its expense, to provide temporary water supply if an aquifer test results in interference with an existing water use.

(f) Review of submittals under this section may be terminated by the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 806.16.

(g) This section does not apply to withdrawals related to mine dewatering, water resources remediation or AMD facilities, provided the activity is governed by another regulatory agency.

(h) Sources undergoing renewal that can provide an interpretative hydrogeologic report that documents the results of a Commission approved aquifer test or documentation of an approved prior waiver by the Commission may meet the requirements of this section for that previously approved groundwater source.

(i) In lieu of completing a Commission-approved aquifer test, the project sponsor may submit an Alternative Hydrogeologic Evaluation (AHE) that provides supporting information equivalent to that which would be obtained from completing an approved aquifer test under paragraph (a) of this section. This supporting information includes, but is not limited to, prior aquifer testing data, the withdrawal setting and location, existing site specific operational data, and prior Commission approved waivers of aquifer testing requirements. Commission staff may approve an AHE for a project or require completion of a Commission approved aquifer test in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(j) This section does not apply to withdrawals from a small capacity source, unless otherwise determined by the Executive Director.
