
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart B - Application Procedure
##### ยง 806.14 Contents of application.

(a) Applications for a new project or a major modification to an existing approved project shall include, but not be limited to, the following information and, where applicable, shall be subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and submitted on forms and in the manner prescribed by the Commission.

(1) Identification of project sponsor including any and all proprietors, corporate officers or partners, the mailing address of the same, and the name of the individual authorized to act for the sponsor.

(2) Project location, including latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees accurate to within 10 meters, the project location displayed on a map, and evidence of legal access to the property upon which the project is proposed.

(3) Project description, including: purpose, proposed quantity to be withdrawn or consumed, if applicable, and description of all sources, consumptive uses and diversions related to the project.

(4) Anticipated impact of the project, including impacts on existing water withdrawals, nearby surface waters, and threatened or endangered species and their habitats.

(5) The reasonably foreseeable need for the proposed quantity of water to be withdrawn or consumed, including supporting calculations, and the projected demand for the term of the approval.

(6) A metering plan that adheres to ยง 806.30.

(7) Evidence of coordination and compliance with member jurisdictions regarding all necessary permits or approvals required for the project from other federal, state or local government agencies having jurisdiction over the project.

(8) Project estimated completion date and estimated construction schedule.

(9) Draft notices required by ยง 806.15.

(10) The Commission may also require the following information as deemed necessary:

(i) Engineering feasibility.

(ii) Ability of the project sponsor to fund the project.

(b) Additional information is required for a new project or a major modification to an existing approved project as follows.
