
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart B - Application Procedure
##### § 806.15 Notice of application.

(a) Except with respect to paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section, any project sponsor submitting an application to the Commission shall provide notice thereof to the appropriate agency of the member State, each municipality in which the project is located, and the county and the appropriate county agencies in which the project is located. The project sponsor shall also publish notice of submission of the application at least once in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area in which the project is located. The project sponsor shall also meet any of the notice requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, if applicable. All notices required under this section shall be provided or published no later than 20 days after submission of the application to the Commission and shall be in a form and manner as prescribed by the Commission.

(b) For withdrawal applications submitted pursuant to § 806.4(a)(2) for new projects, major modifications, and renewals requesting an increase, the project sponsor shall also provide the notice required under paragraph (a) of this section to each property owner listed on the tax assessment rolls of the county in which such property is located and identified as follows:

(1) For groundwater withdrawal applications, the owner of any property that is located within a one-quarter mile radius of the proposed withdrawal location.

(2) For surface water withdrawal applications, the owner of any property that is riparian or littoral to the body of water from which the proposed withdrawal will be taken and is within a one-half mile radius of the proposed withdrawal location.

(3) For groundwater withdrawal applications, the Commission or Executive Director may allow notification of property owners through alternate methods where the property of such property owner is served by a public water supply.

(c) For projects involving a diversion of water out of the basin, the project sponsor shall also publish a notice of the submission of its application at least once in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area outside the basin where the project proposing to use the diverted water is located. For projects involving a diversion of water into the basin, the project sponsor shall also publish a notice of the submission of its application at least once in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area outside the basin where the withdrawal of water proposed for diversion is located.

(d) The project sponsor shall provide the Commission with a copy of the United States Postal Service return receipt or the verified return receipt from a comparable delivery service for the notifications to agencies of member States, municipalities, counties and appropriate county agencies required under this section. The project sponsor shall also provide certification on a form provided by the Commission that it has published the newspaper notice(s) required by this section and made the landowner notifications as required under paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable. The project sponsor shall maintain all proofs of publication and records of notices sent under this section for the duration of the approval related to such notices.

(e) For Notices of Intent (NOI) seeking coverage under a general permit, the project sponsor shall provide notice of the NOI to the appropriate agency of the member State and each municipality and county and appropriate county agencies in which the project is located and any additional notice identified in the general permit.

(f) For applications for minor modifications and approvals by rule under § 806.22(e), the project sponsor shall provide notice of the application to the appropriate agency of the member State and each municipality and county and appropriate county agencies in the which the project is located.

(g) For NOIs seeking an approval pursuant to § 806.22(f), the project sponsor shall provide notice of the application to the appropriate agency of the member State, each municipality, county and appropriate county agencies, and the owner of the property on or in which the drilling pad site is located. For requests for approval submitted under § 806.22(f)(13), the project sponsor shall provide notice of the application to the appropriate agency of the member State, each municipality, county and appropriate county agencies in which the public water supply is located.
