
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart B - Application Procedure
##### ยง 806.17 General permits.
###### Administration of general permits.

(c)General permits may be issued, amended, suspended, revoked, reissued or terminated under this section.

(1) Any general permit issued under this section shall set forth the applicability of the permit and the conditions that apply to any diversion, withdrawal or consumptive use authorized by such general permit.

(2) The Commission may fix a term to any general permit issued.

(3) A project sponsor shall obtain permission to divert, withdraw or consumptively use water in accordance with a general permit by filing a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the Commission, in a form and manner determined by the Commission.

(4) Approval of coverage under a general permit shall be determined by the Executive Director or by any other manner that the Commission shall establish for any general permit.

(5) The Commission may set a fee for NOIs to any general permit.

(6) A project sponsor shall provide notice for NOIs in accordance with ยง 806.15(h) and any additional notice requirements that the Commission may adopt for any general permit.

(7) The requirements of ยง 806.16 apply to the review of NOIs to any general permit.

(8) Upon reissuance or amendment of a general permit, all project sponsors permitted to divert, withdraw or consumptively use water in accordance with the previous general permit shall be permitted to continue to operate with the renewed or modified general permit unless otherwise notified by the Commission.

(9) Notice of receipt of NOIs shall be published on the Commission's Web site and in any other manner that the Commission shall establish for any general permit.
