
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart C - Standards for Review and Approval
##### § 806.22 Standards for consumptive uses of water.
###### Mitigation.

(b)All project sponsors whose consumptive use of water is subject to review and approval under § 806.4, § 806.5, § 806.6, or § 806.17 shall mitigate such consumptive use. Except to the extent that the project involves the diversion of the waters out of the basin, public water supplies shall be exempt from the requirements of this section regarding consumptive use; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt individual consumptive users connected to any such public water supply from the requirements of this section. Mitigation may be provided by one or a combination of the following:

(1) During low flow periods as may be designated by the Commission for consumptive use mitigation.

(i) Reduce withdrawal from the approved source(s), in an amount equal to the project's consumptive use, and withdraw water from alternative surface water storage or aquifers or other underground storage chambers or facilities approved by the Commission, from which water can be withdrawn for a period of 45 continuous days such that impacts to nearby surface waters will not likely be at a magnitude or in a timeframe that would exacerbate present low flow conditions.

(ii) Release water for flow augmentation, in an amount equal to the project's consumptive use, from surface water storage or aquifers, or other underground storage chambers or facilities approved by the Commission, from which water can be withdrawn for a period of 45 continuous days such that impacts to nearby surface waters will not likely be at a magnitude or in a timeframe that would exacerbate present low flow conditions.

(iii) Discontinue the project's consumptive use, which may include reduction of the project sponsor's consumptive use to less than 20,000 gpd during periods of low flow. In any case of failure to provide the specified discontinuance, such project shall provide mitigation in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for the calendar year in which such failure occurs, after which the Commission will reevaluate the continued acceptability of the discontinuance.

(2) Use, as a source of consumptive use water, surface storage that is subject to maintenance of a conservation release acceptable to the Commission. In any case of failure to provide the specified conservation release, such project shall provide mitigation in accordance with paragraph (3), below, for the calendar year in which such failure occurs, and the Commission will reevaluate the continued acceptability of the conservation release.

(3) Provide monetary payment to the Commission, for all water consumptively used over the course of a year, in an amount and manner prescribed by the Commission.

(4) Implement other alternatives approved by the Commission.
