
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 4 - LICENSES, PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND DETERMINATION OF PROJECT COSTS
##### Subpart M - Fees Under Section 30(e) of the Act
###### ยง 4.303 Post-filing procedures.
####### Assessment of disputed cost statements

(2)The burden of showing that an agency's cost statement is unreasonable is on the applicant. However, a fish and wildlife agency must supply the disputing applicant and the Commission with the documentation necessary to support its cost statement. The Director of the Office of Energy Projects will determine the reasonableness of a disputed fish and wildlife agency cost statement. The Director's decision will be in writing. The Director will notify the disputing applicant and the fish and wildlife agency of the decision by letter. Any decision of the Director may be appealed by either party pursuant to 18 CFR 385.1902. In deciding whether or not a disputed cost statement is reasonable, the Director will review the application, the disputed cost statement and any other documentation relating to the particular environmental problems associated with the disputing applicant's proposed project. The Director will consider such factors as:

(i) The time the fish and wildlife agency spent reviewing the application;

(ii) The proportion of the cost statement to the time the fish and wildlife agency spent reviewing the application;

(iii) Whether the fish and wildlife agency's expenditures conform to Federal expenditure guidelines for such items as travel, per diem, personnel, and contracting; and

(iv) Whether the studies conducted by the agency, if any, are duplicative, limited to the proposed project area, unnecessary to determine the impacts to or mitigation measures for the particular fish and wildlife resources affected by the proposed project, or otherwise unnecessary to set terms and conditions for the proposed project.
