
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 806 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS
#### Subpart D - Terms and Conditions of Approval
##### ยง 806.34 Emergencies.
###### Notification and application.

(b)A project sponsor shall notify the Commission, prior to commencement of the project, that an emergency certificate is needed. In the case of a project operating under an existing Commission approval seeking emergency approval to modify, waive or partially waive one or more conditions of such approval, notice shall be provided to the Commission prior to initiating the operational changes associated with the request. If immediate action, as defined by this section, is required by a project sponsor and prior notice to the Commission is not possible, then the project sponsor must contact the Commission within one (1) business day of the action. Notification may be by certified mail, facsimile, telegram, mailgram, electronic mail or other form of written communication. This notification must be followed within one (1) business day by submission of the following:

(1) A completed emergency application form or copy of the State or Federal emergency water use application if the project sponsor also is requesting emergency approval from either a state or federal agency.

(2) At a minimum, the application shall contain:

(i) Contact information.

(ii) Justification for emergency action (purpose).

(iii) Location map and schematic of proposed project, or in the case of a project operating under an existing Commission approval, the project approval reference and a description of the operational changes requested.

(iv) Desired term of emergency use.

(v) Source(s) of the water.

(vi) Quantity of water.

(vii) Flow measurement system (such as metering).

(viii) Use restrictions in effect (or planned).

(ix) Description of potential adverse impacts and mitigating measures.

(x) Appropriate fee, unless reduced, waived or delayed with the approval of the Executive Director.
