
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations of the Commission
###### ยง 2.1 Initial notice; service; and information copies of formal documents.
####### Miscellaneous, gas and electric.

(xi)(A) Order instituting an investigation in which hearings are fixed or in which an opportunity is given for filing comments or petitions to intervene.

(B) Show cause order, in which hearings are fixed or in which an opportunity is given for filing comments or petitions to intervene.

(C) Order or notice consolidating proceedings for hearing purposes or severing a proceeding formerly consolidated for hearing purposes.

(D) Applications for declaratory order, disclaimers of jurisdiction, or waiver of Commission regulations, unless otherwise directed.

(E) Requests for redesignation, unless otherwise directed.

(F) Requests for extension of time pursuant to ยง 385.2008 of this chapter, unless otherwise directed.

(G) Consolidations and severance pursuant to ยง 375.302(f) of this chapter, unless otherwise directed.

(H) Notice of correction of a document in any of the above categories.

(I) Notice of meetings of advisory committees established by the Commission.

(J) Notices of conferences in docketed rulemaking proceedings.

(K) Proposed penalties under section 31 of the Federal Power Act.

(L) Such other notices or orders as may be submitted by the Secretary for publication.
