
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 808 - HEARINGS AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
#### Subpart B - Compliance and Enforcement
##### ยง 808.12 Investigative powers.

(a) The Commission or its agents or employees, at any reasonable time and upon presentation of appropriate credentials, may inspect or investigate any person or project to determine compliance with any provisions of the compact, or the Commission's rules, regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions, or any other requirements of the Commission. Such employees or agents are authorized to conduct tests or sampling; to take photographs; to perform measurements, surveys, and other tests; to inspect the methods of construction, operation, or maintenance; to inspect all measurement equipment; and to audit, examine, and copy books, papers, and records pertinent to any matter under investigation. Such employees or agents are authorized to take any other action necessary to assure that any project is constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with any provisions of the compact, or the Commission's rules, regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions, or any other requirements of the Commission.

(b) Any person shall allow authorized employees or agents of the Commission, without advance notice, at any reasonable time and upon presentation of appropriate credentials, and without delay, to have access to and to inspect all areas where a project is being constructed, operated, or maintained.

(c) Any person shall provide such information to the Commission as the Commission may deem necessary to determine compliance with any provisions of the compact, or the Commission's rules, regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions, or any other requirements of the Commission. The person submitting information to the Commission shall verify that it is true and accurate to the best of the knowledge, information, and belief of the person submitting such information. Any person who knowingly submits false information to the Commission shall be subject to civil penalties as provided in the compact and criminal penalties under the laws of the member jurisdictions relating to unsworn falsification to authorities.
