
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter VIII - Susquehanna River Basin Commission
### PART 808 - HEARINGS AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
#### Subpart B - Compliance and Enforcement
##### ยง 808.16 Civil penalty criteria.

(a) In determining the amount of any civil penalty or any settlement of a violation, the Commission and Executive Director shall consider:

(1) Previous violations, if any, of any provision of the compact, the Commission's rules or regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions or any other requirements of the Commission.

(2) The intent of the alleged violator.

(3) The extent to which the violation caused adverse consequences to public health, safety and welfare or to water resources.

(4) The costs incurred by the Commission or any member jurisdiction relating to the failure to comply with any provision of the compact, the Commission's rules or regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions or any other requirements of the Commission.

(5) The extent to which the violator has cooperated with the Commission in correcting the violation and remediating any adverse consequences or harm that has resulted therefrom.

(6) The extent to which the failure to comply with any provision of the compact, the Commission's rules or regulations, orders, approvals, docket conditions or any other requirements of the Commission was economically beneficial to the violator.

(7) The length of time over which the violation occurred and the amount of water used, diverted or withdrawn during that time period.

(8) The punitive effect of a civil penalty.

(b) The Commission and/or Executive Director retains the right to waive any penalty or reduce the amount of the penalty recommended by the Commission staff under ยง 808.15(a)(3) should it be determined, after consideration of the factors in paragraph (a) of this section, that extenuating circumstances justify such action.
