
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1301 - PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 1301.23 Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a record system.

(a) An individual may, in accordance with this section (1) request a TVA determination whether a record retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier is maintained in a TVA system, and (2) request access to such a record. A request for determination may be combined with a request for access.

(b) Requests under this section shall:

(1) Be in writing and signed by the individual seeking the determination or access;

(2) Include the individual's mailing address;

(3) Name the TVA system as listed in the TVA system notice;

(4) Include any additional identifying information specified in the paragraph headed "Notification procedure" in the applicable TVA system notice;

(5) Specify whether the request is for determination only or for both determination and access; and

(6) Include such proof of identity as may be required by ยง 1301.24 and the applicable system notice. Requests may be presented in person or by mail. In-person requests shall be presented during normal TVA business hours, as set out in ยง 1301.24(g).

(c) Requests for determination only shall be presented to the official designated in the paragraph headed "Notification procedure" in the TVA system notice for the TVA system concerned. Requests for both determination and access shall be presented to the official designated in the paragraph headed "Access procedure" in the TVA system notice for the TVA system concerned. Certain TVA system notices designate officials at field locations of TVA systems. With respect to such TVA systems, an individual who believes his record is located at the field location may present a request to the designated official at the field location. If the record is not available at that field location, the request will be forwarded to the appropriate TVA office.

(d) If a request is for determination only, the determination will normally be made within 10 days after receipt of the request. If the determination cannot be made within 10 days after receipt of a request, the designated official will acknowledge the request in writing and state when the determination will be made. Upon making a determination, the designated official will notify the individual making the request whether the record exists. The notice will include any additional information necessary to enable the individual to request access to the record.

(e) A request which includes a request for access will be acknowledged within 10 days after receipt. If access can be granted as requested, the acknowledgment will provide a time and place for disclosure of the requested record. Disclosure will normally be made within 30 days of the date of the acknowledgement, but the designated official may extend the 30-day period for reasons found by him to be good cause. In case of an extension, TVA will notify the individual, in writing, that disclosure will be delayed, the reasons for delay, and the anticipated date on which the individual may expect the record to be disclosed. TVA will attempt to accommodate reasonable requests for disclosure at specified times and dates, as set forth in a request for access, so far as compatible with the conduct of TVA business.
