
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1301 - PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 1301.28 TVA review of request for correction or amendment of record.

(a) TVA will acknowledge a request for amendment within 10 days of receipt. The acknowledgement will be in writing, will request any additional information TVA requires to determine whether to make the requested correction or amendment, and will indicate the date by which TVA expects to make its initial determination.

(b) TVA will, except in unusual circumstances, complete its consideration of requests to amend records within 30 days. If more time is deemed necessary, TVA will notify the individual of the delay and of the expected date of completion of the review.

(c) If TVA determines that a record should be corrected or amended, in whole or in part, in accordance with a request, it will advise the requesting individual in writing of its determination, and correct or amend the record accordingly. If an accounting of disclosures has been made, TVA will, to the extent of the accounting, inform prior recipients of the record of the fact that the correction was made and the substance of the correction.

(d) If TVA, after initial consideration of a request, determines that a record should not be corrected or amended, in whole or in part, in accordance with a request, it will notify the individual in writing of its refusal to amend the record and the reasons therefor. The notification will inform the individual that the refusal may be appealed administratively and will advise the individual of the procedures for such appeals.
