
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1301 - PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 1301.34 Specific exemptions.

(a) The TVA system Nuclear Access Authorization and Fitness for Duty Records is exempt from subsections (d); (e)(4)(H); and (f)(2), (3), and (4) of 5 U.S.C. 522a (section 3 of the Privacy Act of 1974) to the extent that disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, and to the extent that disclosure of testing or examination material would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process. This exemption is pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(5) and (6).

(b)(1) The TVA systems "Apprentice Training Record System-TVA," "Consultant and Contractor Records-TVA," "Employment Applicant Files-TVA," "Personnel Files-TVA," and "Nuclear Quality Assurance Personnel Records-TVA" are exempted from subsections (d); (e)(4)(H); (f)(2), (3), and (4) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and corresponding sections of these rules to the extent that disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. These TVA systems are exempted pursuant to section (k)(5) of 5 U.S.C. 552a (section 3 of the Privacy Act).

(2) Each of these TVA systems contain reference letters and information concerning employees and other individuals who perform services for TVA. TVA has received this information in the past under both express and implied promises of confidentiality and consistent with the Privacy Act these promises will be honored. Pledges of confidentiality will be necessary in the future to ensure that unqualified or unsuitable individuals are not selected for TVA positions. Without the ability to make these promises, a potential source of information may be unwilling to provide needed information, or may not be sufficiently frank to be of value in personnel screening.

(c)(1) The TVA systems "Apprentice Training Record System-TVA," "Consultant and Contractor Records-TVA," "Employment Applicant Files-TVA," and "Personnel Files-TVA," are exempted from subsections (d); (e)(4)(H); (f)(2), (3), and (4) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and corresponding sections of these rules to the extent that disclosure of testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process. These systems are exempted pursuant to section (k)(6) of 5 U.S.C. 552a (section 3 of the Privacy Act).

(2) This material is exempted because its disclosure would reveal information about the testing process which would potentially give an individual an unfair competitive advantage in selection based on test performance.

(d) The TVA system OIG Investigative Records is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4), (G), (H), and (I) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a (section 3 of the Privacy Act) and corresponding sections of these rules pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The TVA system OIG Investigative Records is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), and (g) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This system is exempt because application of these provisions might alert investigation subjects to the existence or scope of investigations, lead to suppression, alteration, fabrication, or destruction of evidence, disclose investigative techniques or procedures, reduce the cooperativeness or safety of witnesses, or otherwise impair investigations.

(e) The TVA system TVA Police Records is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4), (G), (H), and (I) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a (section 3 of the Privacy Act) and corresponding sections of these rules pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The TVA system Police Records is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), and (g) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This system is exempt because application of these provisions might alert investigation subjects to the existence or scope of investigations, lead to suppression, alteration, fabrication, or destruction of evidence, disclose investigative techniques or procedures, reduce the cooperativeness or safety of witnesses, or otherwise impair investigations.
