
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1301 - PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Government in the Sunshine Act
##### § 1301.48 Public availability of transcripts and other documents.

(a) Public announcements of meetings pursuant to § 1301.44, written copies of votes to change the subject matter of meetings made pursuant to § 1301.44(c), written copies of votes to close meetings and explanations of such closings made pursuant to § 1301.45(c), and certifications of the General Counsel made pursuant to § 1301.45(d) shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours in the TVA Research Library, 400 W. Summit Hill Drive, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902-1401.

(b) TVA shall make promptly available to the public at the location described in paragraph (a) of this section the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes (as required by § 1301.47(b)) of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as TVA determines to contain information which may be withheld under § 1301.46. Each request for such material shall be made to the Manager, Media Relations, Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902-1499; state that it is a request for records pursuant to the Government in the Sunshine Act and this subpart; and reasonably describe the discussion or item of testimony, and the date of the meeting, with sufficient specificity to permit TVA to identify the item requested.

(c) In the event the person making a request under paragraph (b) of this section has reason to believe that all transcripts, electronic recordings, or minutes or portions thereof requested by that person and required to be made available under paragraph (b) of this section were not made available, the person shall make a written request to the Senior Manager, Media Relations, for such additional transcripts, electronic recordings, or minutes or portions thereof as that person believes should have been made available under paragraph (b) of this section and shall set forth in the request the reasons why such additional material is required to be made available with sufficient particularity for the Senior Manager, Media Relations, to determine the validity of such request. Promptly after a request pursuant to this paragraph is received, the Senior Manager, Media Relations, or his/her designee shall make a determination as to whether to comply with the request, and shall immediately give written notice of the determination to the person making the request. If the determination is to deny the request, the notice to the person making the request shall include a statement of the reasons for the denial, a notice of the right of the person making the request to appeal the denial to TVA's Senior Vice President, Communications, and the time limits thereof.

(d) If the determination pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section is to deny the request, the person making the request may appeal such denial to TVA's Senior Vice President, Communications. Such an appeal must be taken within 30 days after the person's receipt of the determination by the Senior Manager, Media Relations, and is taken by delivering a written notice of appeal to the Senior Vice President, Communications, Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902-1401. Such notice shall include a statement that it is an appeal from a denial of a request under § 1301.48(c) and the Government in the Sunshine Act and shall indicate the date on which the denial was issued and the date on which the denial was received by the person making the request. Promptly after such an appeal is received, TVA's Senior Vice President, Communications, or the Senior Vice President's designee shall make a final determination on the appeal. In making such a determination, TVA will consider whether or not to waive the provisions of any exemption contained in § 1301.46. TVA shall immediately give written notice of the final determination to the person making the request. If the final determination on the appeal is to deny the request, the notice to the person making the request shall include a statement of the reasons for the denial and a notice of the person's right to judicial review of the denial.

(e) Copies of materials available for public inspection under this section shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.
