
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1301 - PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Testimony by TVA Employees, Production of Official Records, and Disclosure of Official Information in Legal Proceedings
##### ยง 1301.54 Requirements for a demand for records or testimony.
###### Form of Demand.

(c)A demand for testimony or production of records or other official information must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The demand must be in writing and submitted to the General Counsel.

(2) The demand must include the following information:

(i) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other authority involved.

(ii) If production or records or other official information is sought, a list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the records sought.

(iii) If testimony is sought, a description of the intended use of the testimony, a detailed description of how the testimony sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony sought.

(iv) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs any need to maintain the confidentiality of the information and outweighs the burden on TVA to produce the documents or testimony.

(v) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, from other persons or entities, or from the testimony of someone other than a TVA employee, such as a retained expert.

(vi) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case.
