
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1302 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF TVA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1302.7 Compliance reviews and conduct of investigations.
##### Preaward compliance reviews.

(a)(1) Prior to approval of financial assistance, TVA will make a determination as to whether the proposed recipient is in compliance with Title VI and the requirements of this part with respect to a program or activity for which it is seeking Federal financial assistance from TVA. The basis for such a determination shall be submission of an assurance of compliance and a review of the data and information submitted by the proposed recipient, any relevant compliance review reports on file with TVA, and any other information available to TVA. Where a determination cannot be made from this data, TVA will require the submission of necessary additional information and may take additional steps. Such additional steps may include, for example, communicating with local government officials, protected class organizations, and onsite reviews.

(2) No proposed recipient shall be approved unless it is determined that the proposed recipient is in compliance with Title VI and this part or has agreed in writing to take necessary specified steps within a stated period of time to come into compliance with Title VI and this part. Such an agreement must be approved by TVA and made a part of the conditions of the agreement under which the financial assistance is provided.

(3)(i) Where TVA finds that a proposed recipient may not be in compliance with Title VI and this part, TVA shall notify the proposed recipient and the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights in writing of:

(A) The preliminary findings setting forth the alleged noncompliance;

(B) Suggested actions for correcting the alleged noncompliance; and

(C) The fact that the proposed recipient has 10 days to correct the alleged noncompliance or to provide during this time a written submission responding to or rebutting the preliminary findings or suggested corrective actions set forth in the notice.

(ii) If within this 10-day period the proposed recipient has not agreed to the suggested actions set forth or to other actions that would correct the alleged noncompliance under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section, or the preliminary findings set forth in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, or voluntary compliance has not been otherwise secured, TVA shall make a formal determination of compliance or noncompliance, notify the proposed recipient, and the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights and institute proceedings (including provision of an opportunity for a hearing) under ยง 1302.8 of this part.
