
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1302 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF TVA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1302.7 Compliance reviews and conduct of investigations.
##### Postaward compliance reviews.

(b)(1) TVA may periodically conduct compliance reviews of selected recipients in their programs or activities receiving TVA financial assistance, including the request of data and information, and may conduct onsite reviews where it has reason to believe that discrimination may be occurring in such programs or activities.

(2) Selection for review shall be made on the basis of the following criteria among others:

(i) The number and nature of discrimination complaints filed against a recipient with TVA or other Federal agencies;

(ii) The scope of the problem revealed by an investigation commenced on the basis of a complaint filed with TVA against a recipient; and

(iii) The amount of assistance provided to the recipient.

(3) Within 15 days after selection of a recipient for review, TVA shall inform the recipient that it has been selected for review. The review will ordinarily be initiated by a letter requesting data pertinent to the review and advising the recipient of:

(i) The practices to be reviewed;

(ii) The programs or activities affected by the review;

(iii) The opportunity to make, at any time prior to receipt of the final TVA findings with respect to the review pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, a documentary submission responding to TVA which explains, validates, or otherwise addresses the practices under review; and

(iv) The schedule under which the review will be conducted and a determination of compliance or noncompliance made.

(4) Within 180 days of initiation of a review, TVA shall advise the recipient, in writing of:

(i) Its preliminary findings;

(ii) Where appropriate, recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance;

(iii) The opportunity to request TVA to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations prior to TVA's final determination of compliance or noncompliance. TVA shall notify the Assistant Attorney General at the time it notifies the recipient of any matter where recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance are made.

(5) TVA's General Manager may extend the 180-day period set out in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for good cause shown.

(6) If, within 50 days of the recipient's notification under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, TVA's recommendations for compliance are not met or voluntary compliance is not secured, and the preliminary findings have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, TVA shall make a final determination of compliance or noncompliance. The determination is to be made no later than 14 days after the conclusion of the 50-day negotiation period. TVA's General Manager may extend the 14-day period for good cause shown.

(7) Where TVA makes a formal determination of noncompliance on a postaward review, the recipient and the Assistant Attorney General shall be immediately notified in writing of the determination and of the fact that the recipient has an additional 10 days in which to come into voluntary compliance. If voluntary compliance has not been achieved within the 10 days, TVA shall institute proceedings under ยง 1302.8 of this part.

(8) All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient.
