
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1302 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF TVA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1302.7 Compliance reviews and conduct of investigations.
##### Complaint investigation.

(c)(1) TVA shall investigate complaints of discrimination in a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from TVA that allege a violation of Title VI or this part.

(2) No complaint will be investigated if it is received by TVA more than 180 days after the date of the alleged discrimination unless the time for filing is extended by TVA for good cause shown. Where a complaint is accepted for investigation, TVA will initiate an investigation. The complainant shall be notified in writing as to whether the complaint has been accepted or rejected.

(3) TVA shall conduct investigations of complaints as follows:

(i) Within 10 days of receipt of a complaint, the Director of Equal Opportunity Compliance shall:

(A) Determine whether TVA has jurisdiction under paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section;

(B) If jurisdiction is not found, wherever possible refer the complaint to the Federal agency with such jurisdiction and advise the complainant;

(C) If jurisdiction is found, notify the recipient alleged to be in violation of the receipt and acceptance of the complaint; and

(D) Initiate the investigation.

(ii) The investigation will ordinarily be initiated by a letter to the recipient requesting data pertinent to the complaint and informing the recipient of:

(A) The nature of the complaint, and with the written consent of the complainant, the identity of the complainant;

(B) The programs or activities affected by the complaint;

(C) The opportunity to make, at any time prior to receipt of TVA's final findings under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, a documentary submission, responding to, rebutting, or denying the allegations made in the complaint; and

(D) The schedule under which the complaint will be investigated and a determination of compliance or noncompliance made.

(iii) Within 180 days of the initiation of a complaint investigation, TVA shall advise the recipient, in writing, of:

(A) Preliminary findings;

(B) Where appropriate, recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance; and

(C) The opportunity to request TVA to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations prior to TVA's final determination of compliance or noncompliance. TVA shall notify the Assistant Attorney General at the time the recipient is notified of any matter where recommendations for achieving voluntary compliance are made.

(4) If, within 50 days of the recipient's notification under paragraph (c) of this section, TVA's recommendations for compliance are not met, or voluntary compliance is not secured, and the preliminary findings have not been rebutted to TVA's satisfaction, TVA shall make a formal determination of compliance or noncompliance. The determination is to be made no later than 14 days after conclusion of a 50-day negotiation period. TVA's General Manager may extend the 14-day period for good cause shown.

(5) Where TVA makes a formal determination of noncompliance, the complainant, the recipient, and the Assistant Attorney General shall be immediately notified in writing of the determination and of the fact that the recipient has an additional 10 days in which to come into compliance. If voluntary compliance has not been achieved within the 10 days, TVA shall institute proceedings under ยง 1302.8 of this part. The complainant shall also be notified of any action taken including the closing of the complaint or the achievement of voluntary compliance. All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient and shall be made available to the complainant on request.

(6) If the complainant or party other than TVA has filed suit in Federal or State court alleging the same discrimination as alleged in a complaint pending before TVA, and if during TVA's investigation the trial of that suit would be in progress, TVA will consult with the Assistant Attorney General and court records to determine the need to continue or suspend the investigation and will monitor the litigation through the court docket and contacts with the complainant. Upon receipt of notice that the court has made a finding of discrimination against a recipient that would constitute a violation of this part, TVA shall institute proceedings as specified in ยง 1302.8 of this part. All agreements to come into voluntary compliance shall be in writing and signed by TVA and an official who has authority to legally bind the recipient.

(7) The time limits listed in paragraphs (c) (3) through (5) of this section shall be appropriately adjusted where TVA requests another Federal agency to act on the complaint. TVA shall monitor the progress of the matter through liaison with the other agency. Where the request to act does not result in timely resolution of the matter, TVA shall institute appropriate proceedings as required by this part.
