
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1302 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF TVA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1302.10 Decisions and notices.
##### Decision by a member of the TVA Board or a hearing examiner.

(a)A member of the TVA Board or a hearing examiner who holds the hearing shall either make an initial decision or certify the entire record, including the Board member's or examiner's recommended findings and proposed decision, to the TVA Board for a final decision. A copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the recipient. Where the initial decision is made by a member of the TVA Board or a hearing examiner, the recipient may file exceptions to the initial decision, together with a statement of reasons therefor. Such exceptions and statement shall be filed with the TVA Board within 30 days of the date the notice of initial decision was mailed to the recipient. In the absence of exceptions, the TVA Board may on its own motion within 45 days after the initial decision serve on the recipient a notice that the TVA Board will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of such notice of review, the TVA Board shall review the initial decision and issue its own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the TVA Board.
