
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1302 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF TVA - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 1302.10 Decisions and notices.
##### Posttermination proceedings.

(g)(1) A recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this regulation and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this regulation.

(2) Any recipient or proposed recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request TVA to restore fully the recipient's eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If TVA determines that those requirements have been satisfied, TVA shall restore such eligibility.

(3) If TVA denies any such request, the recipient may submit a written request for a hearing specifying why it believes TVA to have been in error. The recipient shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by TVA. The recipient will be restored to such eligibility if the recipient proves at such a hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
