
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Approval of Construction
##### ยง 1304.1 Scope and intent.
###### et seq.,,et seq.,

The Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 among other things confers on TVA broad authority related to the unified conservation and development of the Tennessee River Valley and surrounding area and directs that property in TVA's custody be used to promote the Act's purposes. In particular, section 26a of the Act requires that TVA's approval be obtained prior to the construction, operation, or maintenance of any dam, appurtenant works, or other obstruction affecting navigation, flood control, or public lands or reservations along or in the Tennessee River or any of its tributaries. By way of example only, such obstructions may include boat docks, piers, boathouses, buoys, floats, boat launching ramps, fills, water intakes, devices for discharging effluent, bridges, aerial cables, culverts, pipelines, fish attractors, shoreline stabilization projects, channel excavations, and floating cabins as described in ยง 1304.101. Any person considering constructing, operating, or maintaining any such obstruction on a stream in the Tennessee River Watershed should carefully review the regulations in this part and the 26a Applicant's Package before doing so. The regulations also apply to certain activities on TVA-owned land alongside TVA reservoirs and to land subject to TVA flowage easements. TVA uses and permits use of the lands and land rights in its custody alongside and subjacent to TVA reservoirs and exercises its land rights to carry out the purposes and policies of the Act. In addition, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4321and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1251have declared it to be congressional policy that agencies should administer their statutory authorities so as to restore, preserve, and enhance the quality of the environment and should cooperate in the control of pollution. It is the intent of the regulations in this part 1304 to carry out the purposes of the Act and other statutes relating to these purposes, and this part shall be interpreted and applied to that end.
