
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Approval of Construction
##### ยง 1304.2 Application.
###### Submittal of section 26a application.

(c)Applicants must submit certain required information depending upon whether a proposed facility is a minor or major facility. Examples of the two categories are provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Most residential related facilities are minor facilities. Commercial or community facilities generally are major facilities. TVA shall determine whether a proposed facility is minor or major. An application shall not be complete until payment of the appropriate fee as determined in accordance with 18 CFR part 1310, and disclosed to the applicant in the materials provided with the application package or by such other means of disclosure as TVA shall from time to time adopt. For purposes of the information required to be submitted under this section and the determination of fees, a request for a variance to the size limitations for a residential-related facility (other than a waiver request under ยง 1304.212 or ยง 1304.300(a)) shall be regarded as an application for a major facility. In addition to the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, TVA may require the applicant to provide such other information as TVA deems necessary for adequate review of a particular application.
