
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Approval of Construction
##### ยง 1304.2 Application.
###### Environmental consultations and permits.

(vi)To the fullest extent possible the applicant shall obtain or apply for other required environmental permits and approvals before or at the same time as applying for section 26a approvals. Consultations under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973 shall take place, and permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and State agencies for water or air regulation shall be obtained or applied for at the same time as or before application for section 26a approval. The applicant shall provide TVA with copies of any such permits or approvals that are issued.

(d) Discharges into navigable waters of the United States. If construction, maintenance, or operation of the proposed structure or any part thereof, or the conduct of the activity in connection with which approval is sought may result in any discharge into navigable waters of the United States, applicant shall also submit with the application, in addition to the material required by paragraph (c) of this section, a copy of the request for certification from the state in which such discharge would originate, or if appropriate, from the interstate water pollution control agency having jurisdiction over the navigable waters at the point where the discharge would originate, or from the Environmental Protection Agency, that such state or interstate agency or the Environmental Protection Agency has determined that the applicant's proposed activity will be conducted in a manner that will comply with applicable water quality standards. The applicant shall further submit such supplemental and additional information as TVA may deem necessary for the review of the application, including, without limitation, information concerning the amounts, chemical makeup, temperature differentials, type and quantity of suspended solids, and proposed treatment plans for any proposed discharges. No section 26a permit will be granted until required certification has been obtained or has been waived. If a certifying agency has not acted within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed one year, of an applicant's request for certification from the respective agency and certification is waived, TVA will proceed with processing of the section 26a permit application.
