
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart B - Regulation of Floating Cabins
##### ยง 1304.103 Health, safety, and environmental standards.
###### Electrical certifications.

(e)Floating cabin owners shall provide, in a form acceptable to TVA, certification of compliance with the electrical standards of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section with their initial permit application, no later than October 1, 2024, and by October 1 of every even-numbered year thereafter. The certification must be signed by a licensed electrical engineer, a state-certified electrical inspector, or a person certified by the International Association of Electrical Inspectors, the International Code Council, or an equivalent organization.

(1) All floating cabins must meet the following minimum requirements for ground fault protection:

(i) The feeder(s) from electrical service on the shore to the floating cabin shall have ground fault protection not exceeding 100 milliamps.

(ii) If the floating cabin has a transformer, the transformer shall have ground fault protection not exceeding 100 milliamps at the first overcurrent protection device on the secondary side of the transformer. The conductors from the transformer enclosure to the overcurrent protection device shall not exceed ten feet and shall be installed in a raceway.

(iii) If the floating cabin is located in a marina and the feeder supplying the floating cabin is part of the marina's electrical system, the feeder shall have ground fault protection not exceeding 100 milliamps.

(iv) If another source of electrical power is utilized on a floating cabin, such as but not limited to a generator, photovoltaic cell, or wind turbine, the source of electrical power shall have ground fault protection not exceeding 100 milliamps at the first overcurrent protection device for each source. For permanently installed sources, the conductors from the source to the first overcurrent protection device shall not exceed ten feet and shall be installed in a raceway.

(v) The floating cabin owner may determine the devices that are utilized to achieve the ground fault protection requirement provided such devices are labeled and listed from a third-party testing laboratory for the purpose of the installation.

(2) If power is supplied to the floating cabin by an underwater cable, the portable power cable shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of National Fire Protection Association 70 Article 555.13 (A)(2) and (B)(4) of the 2017 National Electrical Code. For new portable power cables installed after October 12, 2021, the cables shall meet the requirements of the most recent version of the National Electric Code.
