
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart C - TVA-Owned Residential Access Shoreland
##### ยง 1304.204 Docks, piers, and boathouses.

Applicants are responsible for submitting plans for proposed docks, piers, and boathouses that conform to the size standards specified in this section. Where and if site constraints at the proposed construction location preclude a structure of the maximum size, TVA shall determine the size of facility that may be approved. Applicants are required to submit accurate drawings with dimensions of all proposed facilities.

(a) Docks, piers, boathouses, and all other residential water-use facilities shall not exceed a total footprint area of 1,000 square feet, unless the proposed water-use facility will be located in an area of preexisting development. For the purpose of this regulation, "preexisting development" means either: The water-use facility will be located in a subdivision recorded before November 1, 1999, and TVA permitted at least one water-use facility in the subdivision prior to November 1, 1999; or if there is no subdivision, where the water-use facility will be located within a quarter-mile radius of another water-use facility that TVA permitted prior to November 1, 1999. Water-use facilities located in an area of preexisting development shall not exceed a total footprint area of 1,800 square feet.

(b) Docks, boatslips, piers, and fixed or floating boathouses are allowable. These and other water-use facilities associated with a lot must be sited within a 1,000- or 1,800-square-foot rectangular or square area as required by ยง 1304.204(a) at the lakeward end of the access walkway that extends from the shore to the structure. Access walkways to the water-use structure are not included in calculating the 1,000- or 1,800-square foot area.

(c) Docks and walkway(s) shall not extend more than 150 feet from the shoreline, or more than one-third the distance to the opposite shoreline, whichever is less.

(d) All fixed piers and docks on Pickwick, Wilson, Wheeler, Guntersville, and Nickajack Reservoirs shall have deck elevations at least 18 inches above full summer pool level; facilities on all other reservoirs, shall be a minimum of 24 inches above full summer pool.

(e) All docks, piers, and other water-use facilities must be attached to the shore with a single walkway which must connect from land to the structure by the most direct route and must adjoin the access corridor.

(f) Docks, piers, and boathouses may be fixed or floating or a combination of the two types.

(g) Roofs are allowed on boatslips, except on Kentucky Reservoir where roofs are not allowed on fixed structures due to extreme water level fluctuations. Roofs over docks or piers to provide shade are allowed on all reservoirs.

(h) Docks proposed in subdivisions recorded after November 1, 1999, must be placed at least 50 feet from the neighbors' docks. When this density requirement cannot be met, TVA may require group or community facilities.

(i) Where the applicant owns or controls less than 50 feet of property adjoining TVA shoreland, the overall width of the facilities permitted along the shore shall be limited to ensure sufficient space to accommodate other property owners.

(j) Covered boatslips may be open or enclosed with siding.

(k) Access walkways constructed over water and internal walkways inside of boathouses shall not exceed six feet in width.

(l) Enclosed space shall be used solely for storage of water-use equipment. The outside dimensions of any completely enclosed storage space shall not exceed 32 square feet and must be located on an approved dock, pier, or boathouse.

(m) Docks, piers, and boathouses shall not contain living space or sleeping areas. Floor space shall not be considered enclosed if three of the four walls are constructed of wire or screen mesh from floor to ceiling, and the wire or screen mesh leaves the interior of the structure open to the weather.

(n) Except for floating cabins approved in accordance with subpart B of this part, toilets and sinks are not permitted on water-use facilities.

(o) Covered docks, boatslips, and boathouses shall not exceed one story in height.

(p) Second stories on covered docks, piers, boatslips, or boathouses may be constructed as open decks with railing, but shall not be covered by a roof or enclosed with siding or screening.

(q) In congested areas or in other circumstances deemed appropriate by TVA, TVA may require an applicant's dock, pier, or boathouse to be located on an area of TVA shoreline not directly fronting the applicant's property.
