
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart C - TVA-Owned Residential Access Shoreland
##### ยง 1304.205 Other water-use facilities.

(a) A marine railway or concrete boat launching ramp with associated driveway may be located within the access corridor. Construction must occur during reservoir drawdown. Excavated material must be placed at an upland site. Use of concrete is allowable; asphalt is not permitted.

(b) Tables or benches for cleaning fish are permitted on docks or piers.

(c) All anchoring cables or spud poles must be anchored to the walkway or to the ground in a way that will not accelerate shoreline erosion. Anchoring of cables, chains, or poles to trees on TVA property is not permitted.

(d) Electrical appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, and microwave ovens are not permitted on docks, piers, or boathouses.

(e) Mooring buoys/posts may be permitted provided the following requirements are met.

(1) Posts and buoys shall be placed in such a manner that in TVA's judgment they would not create a navigation hazard.

(2) Mooring posts must be a minimum 48 inches in height above the full summer pool elevation of the reservoir or higher as required by TVA.

(3) Buoys must conform to the Uniform State Waterway Marking system.

(f) Structures shall not be wider than the width of the lot.

(g) In congested areas, TVA may establish special permit conditions requiring dry-docking of floating structures when a reservoir reaches a specific drawdown elevation to prevent these structures from interfering with navigation traffic, recreational boating access, or adjacent structures during winter drawdown.

(h) Closed loop heat exchanges for residential heat pump application may be approved provided they are installed five feet below minimum winter water elevation and they utilize propylene glycol or water. All land-based pipes must be buried within the access corridor.
