
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart C - TVA-Owned Residential Access Shoreland
##### ยง 1304.207 Channel excavation on TVA-owned residential access shoreland.

(a) Excavation of individual boat channels shall be approved only when TVA determines there is no other practicable alternative to achieving sufficient navigable water depth and the action would not substantially impact sensitive resources.

(b) No more than 150 cubic yards of material shall be removed for any individual boat channel.

(c) The length, width, and depth of approved boat channels shall not exceed the dimensions necessary to achieve three-foot water depths for navigation of the vessel at the minimum winter water elevation.

(d) Each side of the channel shall have a slope ratio of at least 3:1.

(e) Only one boat channel or harbor may be considered for each abutting property owner.

(f) The grade of the channel must allow drainage of water during reservoir drawdown periods.

(g) Channel excavations must be accomplished during the reservoir drawdown when the reservoir bottom is exposed and dry.

(h) Spoil material from channel excavations must be placed in accordance with any applicable local, State, and Federal regulations at an upland site above the TVA Flood Risk Profile elevation. For those reservoirs that have no flood control storage, dredge spoil must be disposed of and stabilized above the limits of the 100-year floodplain and off of TVA property.
