
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart C - TVA-Owned Residential Access Shoreland
##### ยง 1304.208 Shoreline stabilization on TVA-owned residential access shoreland.

TVA may issue permits allowing adjacent residential landowners to stabilize eroding shorelines on TVA-owned residential access shoreland. TVA will determine if shoreline erosion is sufficient to approve the proposed stabilization treatment.

(a) Biostabilization of eroded shorelines.

(1) Moderate contouring of the bank may be allowed to provide conditions suitable for planting of vegetation.

(2) Tightly bound bundles of coconut fiber, logs, or other natural materials may be placed at the base of the eroded site to deflect waves.

(3) Willow stakes and bundles and live cuttings of suitable native plant materials may be planted along the surface of the eroded area.

(4) Native vegetation may be planted within the shoreline management zone to help minimize further erosion.

(5) Riprap may be allowed along the base of the eroded area to prevent further undercutting of the bank.

(b) Use of gabions and riprap to stabilize eroded shorelines.

(1) The riprap material must be quarry-run stone, natural stone, or other material approved by TVA.

(2) Rubber tires, concrete rubble, or other debris salvaged from construction sites shall not be used to stabilize shorelines.

(3) Gabions (rock wrapped with wire mesh) that are commercially manufactured for erosion control may be used.

(4) Riprap material must be placed so as to follow the existing contour of the bank.

(5) Site preparation must be limited to the work necessary to obtain adequate slope and stability of the riprap material.

(c) Use of retaining walls for shoreline stabilization.

(1) Retaining walls shall be allowed only where the erosion process is severe and TVA determines that a retaining wall is the most effective erosion control option or where the proposed wall would connect to an existing TVA-approved wall on the lot or to an adjacent owner's TVA-approved wall.

(2) The retaining wall must be constructed of stone, concrete blocks, poured concrete, gabions, or other materials acceptable to TVA. Railroad ties, rubber tires, broken concrete (unless determined by TVA to be of adequate size and integrity), brick, creosote timbers, and asphalt are not allowed.

(3) Reclamation of land that has been lost to erosion is not allowed.

(4) The base of the retaining wall shall not be located more than an average of two horizontal feet lakeward of the existing full summer pool water. Riprap shall be placed at least two feet in depth along the footer of the retaining wall to deflect wave action and reduce undercutting that could eventually damage the retaining wall.
