
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1304 - APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION IN THE TENNESSEE RIVER SYSTEM AND REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER ALTERATIONS
#### Subpart C - TVA-Owned Residential Access Shoreland
##### ยง 1304.209 Land-based structures/alterations.

(a) Except for steps, pathways, boat launching ramps, marine railways located in the access corridor, bank stabilization along the shoreline, and other uses described in this subpart, no permanent structures, fills or grading shall be allowed on TVA land.

(b) Portable items such as picnic tables and hammocks may be placed on TVA land; permanent land-based structures and facilities such as picnic pavilions, gazebos, satellite antennas, septic tanks, and septic drainfields shall not be allowed on TVA land.

(c) Utility lines (electric, water-intake lines, etc.) may be placed within the access corridor as follows:

(1) Power lines, poles, electrical panel, and wiring must be installed:

(i) In a way that would not be hazardous to the public or interfere with TVA operations;

(ii) Solely to serve water-use facilities, and

(iii) In compliance with all State and local electrical codes (satisfactory evidence of compliance to be provided to TVA upon request).

(2) Electrical service must be installed with an electrical disconnect that is:

(i) Located above the 500-year floodplain or the flood risk profile, whichever is higher, and

(ii) Is accessible during flood events.

(3) TVA's issuance of a permit does not mean that TVA has determined the facilities are safe for any purpose or that TVA has any duty to make such a determination.

(d) Fences crossing TVA residential access shoreland may be considered only where outstanding agricultural rights or fencing rights exist and the land is used for agricultural purposes. Fences must have a built-in means for easy pedestrian passage by the public and they must be clearly marked.
