
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 5 - INTEGRATED LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
##### ยง 5.5 Notification of intent.
###### Requirement to notify.,http://www.ferc.gov

(b)In order for a non-licensee to notify the Commission that it intends to file an application for an original, new, or subsequent license, or for an existing licensee to notify the Commission whether or not it intends to file an application for a new or subsequent license, a potential license applicant must file with the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at, a letter that contains the following information:

(1) The potential applicant or existing licensee's name and address.

(2) The project number, if any.

(3) The license expiration date, if any.

(4) An unequivocal statement of the potential applicant's intention to file an application for an original license, or, in the case of an existing licensee, to file or not to file an application for a new or subsequent license.

(5) The type of principal project works licensed, if any, such as dam and reservoir, powerhouse, or transmission lines.

(6) The location of the project by state, county, and stream, and, when appropriate, by city or nearby city.

(7) The installed plant capacity, if any.

(8) The names and mailing addresses of:

(i) Every county in which any part of the project is located, and in which any Federal facility that is used or to be used by the project is located;

(ii) Every city, town, or similar political subdivision;

(A) In which any part of the project is or is to be located and any Federal facility that is or is to be used by the project is located, or

(B) That has a population of 5,000 or more people and is located within 15 miles of the existing or proposed project dam;

(iii) Every irrigation district, drainage district, or similar special purpose political subdivision:

(A) In which any part of the project is or is proposed to be located and any Federal facility that is or is proposed to be used by the project is located; or

(B) That owns, operates, maintains, or uses any project facility or any Federal facility that is or is proposed to be used by the project;

(iv) Every other political subdivision in the general area of the project or proposed project that there is reason to believe would be likely to be interested in, or affected by, the notification; and

(v) Affected Indian tribes.
