
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1307 - NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO HANDICAP
#### § 1307.6 Accessibility.
##### Existing facilities.

(b)(1) Each program or activity subject to this part shall be operated so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by qualified handicapped persons. This paragraph does not necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of an existing facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. A recipient is not required to make building alterations or structural changes if other methods are effective in achieving accessibility. Such compliance methods may include (subject to the provisions of §§ 1307.4 and 1307.5), reassigning aid, benefits, or services to accessible locations within a facility; providing assistance to handicapped persons into or through an otherwise inaccessible facility; delivering programs or activities at other alternative sites which are accessible and are operated or available for use by the recipient; or other methods which comply with the intent of this paragraph.

(2) This paragraph governs the timing of development of transition plans and the completion of necessary building alterations and structural changes to existing facilities, including historic property covered by paragraph (c) of this section. If building alterations or structural changes will be necessary to comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the recipient shall develop a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete the alterations or changes in accordance with such standards as TVA may specify in the contract or agreement, and shall have the plan approved by TVA. If the financial assistance from TVA is expected to last for less than three years, the contract or agreement shall specify the date by which the transition plan shall be developed and approved. If the financial assistance from TVA is expected to last for at least three years, the transition plan shall be developed and submitted to TVA within six months from the effective date of the contract or agreement, subject to extension by TVA for an additional six month period, for good cause shown to it. A transition plan shall:

(i) Be developed with the assistance of interested persons or organizations representing handicapped persons;

(ii) Be available for public inspection after approval by TVA (or at any earlier time required by state or local law applicable to the recipient);

(iii) Identify the official responsible for implementation of the approved plan; and

(iv) Specify the date by which the required alterations or changes shall be completed, which shall be as soon as practicable and in no event later than three years after the effective date that financial assistance is extended by TVA.

(3) Alterations to existing facilities shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be designed and constructed to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
