
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1307 - NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO HANDICAP
#### ยง 1307.12 Decisions and notices.
##### Posttermination proceedings.

(g)(1) A recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive financial assistance upon satisfaction of the terms and conditions for such eligibility contained in that order, or if the recipient otherwise comes into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance of future full compliance with this part.

(2) Any recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request that TVA fully restore the recipient's eligibility to receive financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If TVA determines that those requirements have been satisfied, it shall restore such eligibility.

(3) If TVA denies any such request, the recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying its reasons for believing TVA to have been in error. The recipient shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by TVA. The recipient, upon proving at such a hearing that the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section are satisfied, will be restored to such eligibility. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
