
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1308 - CONTRACT DISPUTES
#### Subpart C - Board of Contract Appeals
##### ยง 1308.21 Jurisdiction and organization.

(a) The Board shall consider and determine timely appeals filed by Contractors from decisions of TVA Contracting Officers pursuant to a disputes clause.

(b) The Board shall consist of an indeterminate number of members, who shall serve on a part-time basis. The members of the Board shall all be attorneys at law duly licensed by any state, commonwealth, territory, or the District of Columbia. One of the members of the Board shall be designated as "Chairman" pursuant to section 8(b)(2) of the Act.

(c) Each appeal or other matter before the Board shall normally be assigned to a single Hearing Officer, to be designated by the Chairman. The Chairman may act as a Hearing Officer, and shall notify the Contractor and TVA of the name and mailing address of the person designated as Hearing Officer.

(d) If a member to whom an appeal has been assigned cannot perform in a timely manner the duties of Hearing Officer, because of unavailability or incapacity which would in the Chairman's judgment affect the expeditious and timely resolution of the appeal, or for any other reason deemed sufficient by the Chairman, the Chairman may take any action deemed appropriate to effectuate the disposition of the appeal and the rights of the parties under this part. The kind of action taken, and the manner thereof, shall be within the discretion of the Chairman, and may include, but is not limited to, action on pending motions, discovery, issuance of or ruling on objections to subpoenas, and reassignment of an appeal in whole or in part.
