
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1308 - CONTRACT DISPUTES
#### Subpart D - Prehearing and Hearing Procedures
##### ยง 1308.35 Small claims procedure.

(a) The Contractor may elect to have the appeal processed under this section, if the amount in dispute is $10,000 or less. This amount shall be determined by totalling the amounts claimed by TVA and Contractor.

(b) Appeals under this section shall be decided, whenever possible, within 120 days after the Hearing Officer receives written notice that the Contractor has elected to proceed under this section. Such election may be made a part of the notice of appeal.

(c) An appeal under this section shall be determined on the basis of the record on appeal and those documents in the appeal file identified in ยง 1308.27(b)(1), (2), and (3). Other documents may be considered in the determination of the appeal as may be stipulated to by the parties, or as the Hearing Officer may order on motion by a party. No evidentiary hearing shall be held unless the Hearing Officer directs testimony on a particular issue. Discovery and other prehearing procedures may be conducted under such time periods as the Hearing Officer may set to meet the 120-day period, and the Hearing Officer may reserve up to 30 days to prepare a decision. Upon request by either party, the Hearing Officer shall hear oral argument after the record is closed, and may direct oral argument on specified issues if the parties do not request it.

(d) The Hearing Officer's decision under this section will be short and contain only summary findings of fact and conclusions of law. The decision may, at the Hearing Officer's discretion, be rendered orally at the conclusion of any oral argument held. In such case, the Hearing Officer will promptly furnish the parties a typed copy of the decision, which shall constitute the final decision.

(e) Decisions under this section shall be final and conclusive except for fraud, and shall have no value as precedent for future appeals.
