
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1309 - NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO AGE
#### ยง 1309.14 How will complaints against recipients be processed?
##### Mediation of complaints.

(c)All complaints which fall within the coverage of the Act and this part will be referred to a mediation agency designated by the Secretary.

(1) The participation of the recipient and the complainant in the mediation process is required, although both parties need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(2) If the complainant and recipient reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of the complaint during the mediation period, they shall reduce the agreement to writing. The mediator shall send a copy of the settlement to TVA. No further action shall be taken based on that complaint unless it appears that the complainant or the recipient is failing to comply with the agreement.

(3) Not more than 60 days after the complaint is filed, the mediator shall return a still unresolved complaint to TVA for initial investigation. The mediator may return a complaint at any time before the end of the 60-day period if it appears that the complaint cannot be resolved through mediation.

(4) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the agency appointing the mediator.
