
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1309 - NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO AGE
#### ยง 1309.15 How will TVA enforce compliance with the Act and this part?

(a) If a compliance report, self-evaluation, or preaward review indicates a violation or threatened violation of the Act or this part, TVA shall attempt to secure the recipient's voluntary compliance with the Act and this part. If the violation or threatened violation cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with the Act and this part may be effected by the following means:

(1) Termination of a recipient's financial assistance under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or this part. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an appropriate hearing officer.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or this part.

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency which will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this part.

(iii) Commencement by TVA of proceedings to enforce any rights of TVA or obligations of the recipient created by the contract, the Act, or this part.

(b) Any termination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be limited to the particular recipient and the particular program or activity (or portion thereof) receiving financial assistance from TVA which is found to be in violation of the Act or this part. No termination shall be based in whole or in part on a finding with respect to any program or activity which does not receive financial assistance from TVA.

(c) No assistance will be terminated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section until:

(1) TVA has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act or this part and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) Thirty days have elapsed after TVA has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the termination of assistance to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. A report shall be filed in each case in which TVA has determined that assistance will be terminated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(d) TVA may defer granting new financial assistance to a recipient when termination proceedings under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are initiated.

(1) New financial assistance includes all assistance administrated by or through TVA for which an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, is required during the deferral period. New financial assistance does not include assistance approved prior to the beginning of termination proceedings.

(2) A deferral may not begin until the recipient has received a notice of opportunity for a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A deferral may not continue for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and TVA. A deferral may not continue for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
