
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1309 - NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO AGE
#### ยง 1309.17 What is the procedure for hearings and issuance of TVA decisions required by this part?
##### Opportunity for hearing.

(a)Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 1309.15(a)(1), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected recipient. This notice shall advise the recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (1) fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the recipient may request of TVA that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (2) advise the recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated time and place. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. A recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of a recipient to request a hearing under this subsection or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under the Act and ยง 1309.15(a)(1) and a consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available.
