
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1312 - PROTECTION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES: UNIFORM REGULATIONS
#### ยง 1312.6 Application for permits and information collection.

(a) Any person may apply to the appropriate Federal land manager for a permit to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from public lands or Indian lands and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal.

(b) Each application for a permit shall include:

(1) The nature and extent of the work proposed, including how and why it is proposed to be conducted, proposed time of performance, locational maps, and proposed outlet for public written dissemination of the results.

(2) The name and address of the individual(s) proposed to be responsible for conducting the work, institutional affiliation, if any, and evidence of education, training, and experience in accord with the minimal qualifications listed in ยง 1312.8(a).

(3) The name and address of the individual(s), if different from the individual(s) named in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, proposed to be responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit.

(4) Evidence of the applicant's ability to initiate, conduct, and complete the proposed work, including evidence of logistical support and laboratory facilities.

(5) Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources on public lands, the names of the university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which the applicant proposes to store all collections, and copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work. Applicants shall submit written certification, signed by an authorized official of the institution, of willingness to assume curatorial responsibility for the collections, records, data, photographs and other documents and tm safeguard and preserve these materials as property of the United States.

(6) Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources on Indian lands, the name of the university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which the applicant proposes to store copies of records, data, photographs, ald other documents derived from the proposed work, and all collections in the event the Indian owners do not wish tm take custody or otherwise dispose of the archaeological resources. Applicants shall submit written certification, signed by an authorized official of the institution, or willingness tm assume curatorial responsibility for the collections, if applicable, and/or the records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work.

(c) The Federal land manager may require additional information, pertinent to land management responsibilities, to be included in the application for permit and shall so inform the applicant.
