
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1314 - BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURES FOR TVA POWER SECURITIES ISSUED THROUGH THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS
#### ยง 1314.5 Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.

(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry TVA Power Security has been credited to a Participant's Security Account.

(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Reserve Bank, is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an "authorized representative of the United States" is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Reserve Bank is a party governing the security interest.

(c) TVA and Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Reserve Bank or in a Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Subject to paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a security interest in favor of the United States, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.

(d) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in ยง 1314.4(b) or (d). The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection, and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
