
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter XIII - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 1318 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT OF 1969
#### Subpart D - Environmental Assessments
##### ยง 1318.302 EA preparation.

(a) As soon as practicable after deciding to prepare an EA, the initiating TVA entity, in consultation with NEPA compliance staff, shall convene an internal coordination team to discuss:

(1) Reasonable alternatives,

(2) Permit requirements,

(3) Coordination with other agencies (consistent with ยง 1318.401),

(4) Environmental issues,

(5) Public involvement, and

(6) A schedule for EA preparation.

(b) The EA will describe the proposed action and include brief discussions of the purpose and need for action, reasonable alternatives, the no-action alternative (consistent with ยง 1318.400(e)), the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, measures (if any) to mitigate such impacts, a listing of the agencies and persons consulted, and a list of permits that may be required for the proposed action.

(c) As appropriate, EAs will identify alternatives that were considered, but not addressed in further detail in the EA.

(d) The EA will address comments made during any public comment period.

(e) The EA will briefly provide sufficient data and analysis for determining whether to prepare an EIS or a FONSI.

(f) The EA will be reviewed by the NEPA compliance staff and other interested TVA entities, including TVA legal counsel.

(g) After the EA is finalized and with the concurrence of TVA legal counsel, the NEPA compliance staff will make one of the following determinations:

(1) A Finding of No Significant Impact,

(2) The action requires the preparation of an EIS, or

(3) The EA needs to be supplemented before the significance of potential impacts can be determined.
