
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 5 - INTEGRATED LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
##### ยง 5.15 Conduct of studies.
###### Initial study report.

(c)(1) Pursuant to the Commission-approved study plan and schedule provided for in ยง 5.13 or no later than one year after Commission approval of the study plan, whichever comes first, the potential applicant must prepare and file with the Commission an initial study report describing its overall progress in implementing the study plan and schedule and the data collected, including an explanation of any variance from the study plan and schedule. The report must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant.

(2) Within 15 days following the filing of the initial study report, the potential applicant shall hold a meeting with the participants and Commission staff to discuss the study results and the potential applicant's and or other participant's proposals, if any, to modify the study plan in light of the progress of the study plan and data collected.

(3) Within 15 days following the meeting provided for in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the potential applicant shall file a meeting summary, including any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant.

(4) Any participant or the Commission staff may file a disagreement concerning the applicant's meeting summary within 30 days, setting forth the basis for the disagreement. This filing must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the Commission staff or other participant.

(5) Responses to any filings made pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section must be filed within 30 days.

(6) No later than 30 days following the due date for responses provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the Director will resolve the disagreement and amend the approved study plan as appropriate.

(7) If no participant or the Commission staff files a disagreement concerning the potential applicant's meeting summary and request to amend the approved study plan within 30 days, any proposed amendment shall be deemed to be approved.
