
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 5 - INTEGRATED LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
##### ยง 5.15 Conduct of studies.
###### Updated study report.

(f)Pursuant to the Commission-approved study plan and schedule provided for in ยง 5.13, or no later than two years after Commission approval of the study plan and schedule, whichever comes first, the potential applicant shall prepare and file with the Commission an updated study report describing its overall progress in implementing the study plan and schedule and the data collected, including an explanation of any variance from the study plan and schedule. The report must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant. The review, comment, and disagreement resolution provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)-(7) of this section shall apply to the updated study report. Any proposal to modify an ongoing study must be accompanied by a showing of good cause why the proposal should be approved as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Any proposal for new information gathering or studies is subject to paragraph (e) of this section except that the proponent must demonstrate extraordinary circumstances warranting approval. The applicant must promptly proceed to complete any remaining undisputed information-gathering or studies under its proposed amendments to the study plan, if any, and must proceed to complete any information-gathering or studies that are the subject of a disagreement upon the Director's resolution of the disagreement.
