
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 5 - INTEGRATED LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
##### ยง 5.18 Application content.
###### Economic analysis.

(E)The economic analysis must include annualized, current cost-based information. For a new or subsequent license, the applicant must include the cost of operating and maintaining the project under the existing license. For an original license, the applicant must estimate the cost of constructing, operating, and maintaining the proposed project. For either type of license, the applicant should estimate the cost of each proposed resource protection, mitigation, or enhancement measure and any specific measure filed with the Commission by agencies, Indian tribes, or members of the public when the application is filed. For an existing license, the applicant's economic analysis must estimate the value of developmental resources associated with the project under the current license and the applicant's proposal. For an original license, the applicant must estimate the value of the developmental resources for the proposed project. As applicable, these developmental resources may include power generation, water supply, irrigation, navigation, and flood control. Where possible, the value of developmental resources must be based on market prices. If a protection, mitigation, or enhancement measure reduces the amount or value of the project's developmental resources, the applicant must estimate the reduction.
