
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 5 - INTEGRATED LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
##### ยง 5.20 Deficient applications.
###### Deficient applications.

(a)(1) If an applicant believes that its application conforms adequately to the pre-filing consultation and filing requirements of this part without containing certain required materials or information, it must explain in detail why the material or information is not being submitted and what steps were taken by the applicant to provide the material or information.

(2) Within 30 days of the filing date of any application for a license under this part, the Director of the Office of Energy Projects will notify the applicant if, in the Director's judgment, the application does not conform to the prefiling consultation and filing requirements of this part, and is therefore considered deficient. An applicant having a deficient application will be afforded additional time to correct the deficiencies, not to exceed 90 days from the date of notification. Notification will be by letter or, in the case of minor deficiencies, by telephone. Any notification will specify the deficiencies to be corrected. Deficiencies must be corrected by submitting an a filing pursuant to the requirements of subpart T of part 385 of this chapter within the time specified in the notification of deficiency.

(3) If the revised application is found not to conform to the prefiling consultation and filing requirements of this part, or if the revisions are not timely submitted, the revised application will be rejected. Procedures for rejected applications are specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
