
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.20 Good faith requests for transmission services and good faith responses by transmitting utilities.
####### General Policy.

(a)(1) This Statement of Policy is adopted in furtherance of the goals of sections 211(a) and 213(a) of the Federal Power Act, as amended and added by the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

(2) Under section 211(a), the Commission may issue an order requiring a transmitting utility to provide transmission services (including any enlargement of transmission capacity necessary to provide such services) only if an applicant has made a request for transmission services to the transmitting utility that would be the subject of such order at least 60 days prior to its filing of an application for such order. The requirement in section 211(a) that an applicant make such a request will be met if such an applicant has, pursuant to section 213(a) of the FPA, made a good faith request to a transmitting utility to provide wholesale transmission services and requests specific rates and charges, and other terms and conditions.

(3) It is the Commission's intention to apply the standards of this Statement of Policy when determining whether and when a valid "good faith" request for service was made.

(4) It is the Commission's intention to encourage an open exchange of information that exhibits a reasonable degree of specificity and completeness between the party requesting transmission services and the transmitting utility.

(5) The Commission intends to apply this Statement of Policy so as to carry out Congress' objective that, subject to appropriate terms and conditions and just and reasonable rates, in conformance with section 212 of the FPA, access to the electric transmission system for the purposes of wholesale transactions be more widely available.
