
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.20 Good faith requests for transmission services and good faith responses by transmitting utilities.
####### e.g.,

(4) The party requesting transmission services should specify the character and nature of the services requested. Some types of service may require more detailed information than others. Where point-to-point service is requested, the party requesting transmission services should specify the anticipated point(s) of receipt to the transmitting utility's grid and the anticipated point(s) of delivery from the transmitting utility's grid. Where a party requesting transmission services requests additional flexibility to schedule multiple resources to meet its needs (network service), the request for services should contain a description of the requested services in sufficient detail to permit the transmitting utility to model the additional services on its transmission system.

(5) The names of any other parties likely to provide transmission service to deliver electric energy to, and receive electric energy from, the transmitting utility's grid in connection with the requested transmission services.

(6) The proposed dates for initiating and terminating the requested transmission services.

(7) The total amount of transmission capacity being requested.

(8) To the extent it is known or can be estimated, a description of the "expected transaction profile" including load factor data describing the hourly quantities of power and energy the party requesting transmission services would expect to deliver to the transmitting utility's grid at relevant points of interconnection. In the event delivery is to multiple points within the transmitting utility's electric control area, the requestor should describe, to the extent it is known or can be estimated, the expected load (over a given duration of time) at each such delivery point.

(9) Whether firm or non-firm service is being requested. Where a party requests non-firm service, it should specify the priority of service it is willing to accept, or the conditions under which it is willing to accept interruption or curtailment, if known.

(10) A statement as to whether the request is being made in response to a solicitation and a copy of the solicitation if publicly available. This will help the transmitting utility determine whether requests for transmission service are duplicative or mutually exclusive of requests filed by other parties.
