
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.20 Good faith requests for transmission services and good faith responses by transmitting utilities.
####### e.g.,

(11) The proposed rates, terms and conditions for the requested transmission services as required by section 213(a). It is not necessary for the requestor to propose a specific numerical rate. Rather, a party requesting transmission services can fulfill the rates, terms and conditions requirement by specifying a rate methodology (embedded or incremental cost) or by referencing an existing formula rate, transmission tariff, or transmission contract. The validity of the good faith request will not depend on the rates proposed by the party requesting transmission services. This requirement is not intended to allow utilities to delay responses to requests for transmission services, or to deny requests for transmission services on the basis of an overly rigid or technical approach to the "rates, terms and conditions" element of the request.

(12) Any other information to facilitate the expeditious processing of its request. Such information will improve the negotiation process, reduce costs, and will improve chances to arrange the requested transmission without resorting to section 211 application procedures before the Commission.
