
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.20 Good faith requests for transmission services and good faith responses by transmitting utilities.
####### Components of a Reply to a Good Faith Request.

(c)The Commission generally considers the following to constitute the minimum components of a reply to a good faith request for transmission services under section 213(a):

(1) Unless the parties agree to a different time frame, the transmitting utility must acknowledge the request within 10 days of receipt. The acknowledgement must include a date by which a response will be sent to the party requesting transmission services and a statement of any fees associated with responding to the request (e.g., initial studies).

(2) The transmitting utility may ask the applicant to provide clarification of only the information needed to evaluate and process a "good faith" request. If the person requesting transmission services believes the transmitting utility is attempting to frustrate the process by making excessive requests for clarification, it may raise this issue if, and when, it files a request for a section 211 order with the Commission.

(3) The transmitting utility must respond to a request within 60 days of receipt or some other mutually agreed upon response date. If both parties agree to an alternative schedule, the agreement must be in writing and signed by both parties.

(4) If the transmitting utility determines that it can provide all the requested services from existing capacity, it should respond by offering the party requesting transmission services an executable service agreement that at a minimum contains the following information:

(i) A description of the proposed transmission rate and any other costs. It is not necessary for the proposed service agreement to contain a fully developed cost-of-service. However, the agreement should explain the basis for the charges for each component of service, including the unbundled components of any transmission rate as well as any other charges.

(ii) The proposed service agreement should explicitly describe all of the applicable terms and conditions of the transmission services provided under the agreement.

(iii) The transmitting utility should accompany the proposed service agreement with a clear statement of the time during which the offer to provide the transmission services will remain open. An open agreement offer may obligate the seller while imposing no countervailing obligation on the purchaser, and an unexecuted contract potentially ties up transmission facilities, thus jeopardizing the availability and price for subsequent requests that would use the same facilities. However, at a minimum, a transmitting utility should permit the party requesting transmission services sufficient time to review service agreements and coordinate multiple stages of joint transactions.

(5) If the transmitting utility determines that it must construct additional facilities or modify existing facilities to provide all or part of the requested services, it must:

(i) Identify the specific constraints and their duration that prevent it from providing all the requested services and explain how these constraints prevent it from providing all the requested services or the desired level of firmness.

(ii) Provide to the applicant all studies, computer input and output data, planning, operating and other documents, work papers, assumptions and any other material that forms the basis for determining the constraints.

(iii) Offer to the applicant an executable agreement under which the applicant agrees to reimburse the transmitting utility for all costs of performing any studies necessary to determine what changes to the transmitting utility's grid are needed to overcome the constraint and provide the requested services, their cost, and the estimated time to complete them. At a minimum, the proposed agreement should contain the following:

(A) An estimate of the cost of the study and the time required to complete it, and

(B) A commitment to supply to the party requesting transmission services all computer input and output data, planning, operating and other documents, work papers, assumptions and any other material used to perform the study.
