
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 11 - ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Subpart A - Charges for Costs of Administration, Use of Tribal Lands and Other Government Lands, and Use of Government Dams
###### ยง 11.1 Costs of administration.
####### Licenses and exemptions other than State or municipal.

(c)For licensees and exemptees, other than State or municipal:

(1) A determination shall be made for each fiscal year of the costs of administration of Part I of the Federal Power Act chargeable to such licensees or exemptees, from which shall be deducted any administrative costs that are stated in the license or exemption or fixed by the Commission in determining headwater benefit payments.

(2) For each fiscal year the costs of administration determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be assessed against such licenses or exemptee in the proportion that the annual charge factor for each such project bears to the total of the annual charge factors under all such outstanding licenses and exemptions.

(3) The annual charge factor for each such project shall be found as follows:

(i) For a conventional project the factor is its authorized installed capacity plus 112.5 times its annual energy output in millions of kilowatt-hours.

(ii) For a pure pumped storage project the factor is its authorized installed capacity.

(iii) For a mixed conventional-pumped storage project the factor is its authorized installed capacity plus 112.5 times its gross annual energy output in millions of kilowatt-hours less 75 times the annual energy used for pumped storage pumping in million of kilowatt-hours.

(iv) For purposes of determining their annual charges factor, projects that are operated pursuant to an exemption will be deemed to have an annual energy output of zero.

(4) To enable the Commission to determine such charges annually, each licensee whose authorized installed capacity exceeds 1.5 megawatts must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a statement under oath showing the gross amount of power generated (or produced by nonelectrical equipment) and the amount of power used for pumped storage pumping by the project during the preceding fiscal year, expressed in kilowatt hours. If any licensee does not report the gross energy output of its project within the time specified above, the Commission's staff will estimate the energy output and this estimate may be used in lieu of the filings required by this section made by such licensee after November 1.

(5) For unconstructed projects, the assessments begin on the date by which the licensee or exemptee is required to commence project construction, or as that deadline may be extended. For constructed projects, the assessments begin on the effective date of the license or exemption, except for any new capacity authorized therein. The assessments for new authorized capacity at licensed or exempted projects begin on the date by which the licensee or exemptee is required to commence construction of the new capacity. In the event that assessments begin during a fiscal year, the charges will be prorated.
