
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 11 - ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Subpart A - Charges for Costs of Administration, Use of Tribal Lands and Other Government Lands, and Use of Government Dams
###### ยง 11.1 Costs of administration.
####### State and municipal licensees and exemptees.

(d)For State or municipal licensees and exemptees:

(1) A determination shall be made for each fiscal year of the cost of administration under Part I of the Federal Power Act chargeable to such licensees and exemptees, from which shall be deducted any administrative costs that are stated in the license or exemption or that are fixed by the Commission in determining headwater benefit payments.

(2) An exemption will be granted to a licensee or exemptee to the extent, if any, to which it may be entitled under section 10(e) of the Act provided the data is submitted as requested in paragraphs (d) (4) and (5) of this section.

(3) For each fiscal year the total actual cost of administration as determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be assessed against each such licensee or exemptee (except to the extent of the exemptions granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section) in the proportion that the authorized installed capacity of each such project bears to the total such capacity under all such outstanding licenses or exemptions.

(4) To enable the Commission to compute on the bill for annual charges the exemption to which State and municipal licensees and exemptees are entitled because of the use of power by the licensee or exemptee for State or municipal purposes, each such licensee or exemptee must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a statement under oath showing the following information with respect to the power generated by the project and the disposition thereof during the preceding fiscal year, expressed in kilowatt-hours:

(i) Gross amount of power generated by the project.

(ii) Amount of power used for station purposes and lost in transmission, etc.

(iii) Net amount of power available for sale or use by licensee or exemptee, classified as follows:

(A) Used by licensee or exemptee.

(B) Sold by licensee or exemptee.

(5) When the power from a licensed or exempted project owned by a State or municipality enters into its electric system, making it impracticable to meet the requirements of this section with respect to the disposition of project power, such licensee or exemptee may, in lieu thereof, furnish similar information with respect to the disposition of the available power of the entire electric system of the licensee or exemptee.

(6) The assessments commence on the date of commencement of project operation. In the event that project operation commences during a fiscal year, the charges will be prorated based on the date on which operation commenced.
