
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 11 - ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Subpart A - Charges for Costs of Administration, Use of Tribal Lands and Other Government Lands, and Use of Government Dams
###### ยง 11.1 Costs of administration.
####### Commission's costs.

(g)(1) With respect to costs incurred by the Commission, the assessment of annual charges will be based on an estimate of the costs of administration of Part I of the Federal Power Act that will be incurred during the fiscal year in which the annual charges are assessed. After the end of the fiscal year, the assessment will be recalculated based on the costs of administration that were actually incurred during that fiscal year; the actual costs will be compared to the estimated costs; and the difference between the actual and estimated costs will be carried over as an adjustment to the assessment for the subsequent fiscal year.

(2) The issuance of bills based on the administrative costs incurred by the Commission during the year in which the bill is issued will commence in 1993. The annual charge for the administrative costs that were incurred in fiscal year 1992 will be billed in 1994. At the licensee's option, the charge may be paid in three equal annual installments in fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996, plus any accrued interest. If the licensee elects the three-year installment plan, the Commission will accrue interest (at the most recent yield of two-year Treasury securities) on the unpaid charges and add the accrued interest to the installments billed in fiscal years 1995 and 1996.

(h) In making their annual reports to the Commission on their costs in administering Part I of the Federal Power Act, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service are to deduct any amounts that were deposited into their Treasury accounts during that year as reimbursements for conducting studies and reviews pursuant to section 30(e) of the Federal Power Act.
