
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 11 - ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Subpart A - Charges for Costs of Administration, Use of Tribal Lands and Other Government Lands, and Use of Government Dams
###### ยง 11.2 Use of government lands.
####### Adjusted per-acre value.

(1)(i) Counties (or other geographical areas) are assigned a per-acre value based on their average per-acre land and building value published in the Census of Agriculture (Census) by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS). The adjusted per-acre value is computed by reducing the NASS Census land and building value by the sum of a state-specific modifier and seven percent. A table of state-specific adjustments will be available on the Commission's Web site.

(ii) The state-specific modifier is a percentage reduction applicable to all counties or geographic areas in a state (except Puerto Rico), and represents the ratio of the total value of irrigated farmland in the state to the total value of all farmland in the state. The state-specific modifier will be recalculated every five years beginning in payment year 2016.

(iii) The state-specific modifier for Puerto Rico is 13 percent.

(iv) For all geographic areas in Alaska except for the Aleutian Islands Area, the Commission will calculate a statewide per-acre value based on the average per-acre land and building values published in the NASS Census for the Kenai Peninsula Area and the Fairbanks Area. This statewide per-acre value will be reduced by the sum of the state-specific modifier and seven percent. The resulting adjusted statewide per-acre value will be applied to all projects located in Alaska, except for projects located in the Aleutian Island Area.
