
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.21 Regional Transmission Groups.
####### Other components.

(c)(1) An RTG agreement should impose on member transmitting utilities an obligation to provide transmission services for other members, including the obligation to enlarge facilities, on a basis that is consistent with sections 205, 206, 211, 212 and 213 of the FPA. To the extent practicable and known, the RTG agreement should specify the terms and conditions under which transmission services will be offered.

(2) An RTG agreement should require, at a minimum, the development of a coordinated transmission plan on a regional basis and the sharing of transmission planning information, with the goal of efficient use, expansion, and coordination of the interconnected electric system on a grid-wide basis. An RTG agreement should provide mechanisms to incorporate the transmission needs of non-members into regional plans. An RTG agreement should include as much detail as possible with regard to operational and planning procedures.

(3) An RTG agreement should include voluntary dispute resolution procedures that provide a fair alternative to resorting in the first instance to section 206 complaints or section 211 proceedings.

(4) An RTG agreement should include an exit provision for RTG members that leave the RTG, specifying the obligations of a departing member.
