
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 2 - GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Statements of General Policy and Interpretations Under the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 2.22 Pricing policy for transmission services provided under the Federal Power Act.

(a) The Commission has adopted a Policy Statement on its pricing policy for transmission services provided under the Federal Power Act. That Policy Statement can be found at 69 FERC 61,086. The Policy Statement constitutes a complete description of the Commission's guidelines for assessing the pricing proposals. Paragraph (b) of this section is only a brief summary of the Policy Statement.

(b) The Commission endorses transmission pricing flexibility, consistent with the principles and procedures set forth in the Policy Statement. It will entertain transmission pricing proposals that do not conform to the traditional revenue requirement as well as proposals that conform to the traditional revenue requirement. The Commission will evaluate "conforming" transmission pricing proposals using the following five principles, described more fully in the Policy Statement.

(1) Transmission pricing must meet the traditional revenue requirement.

(2) Transmission pricing must reflect comparability.

(3) Transmission pricing should promote economic efficiency.

(4) Transmission pricing should promote fairness.

(5) Transmission pricing should be practical.

(c) Under these principles, the Commission will also evaluate "non-conforming" proposals which do not meet the traditional revenue requirement, and will require such proposals to conform to the comparability principle. Non-conforming proposals must include an open access comparability tariff and will not be allowed to go into effect prior to review and approval by the Commission under procedures described in the Policy Statement.
