
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 11 - ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT
##### Subpart B - Charges for Headwater Benefits
###### ยง 11.16 Filing requirements.
####### Data required from owner of the headwater project.

(b)The owner of any headwater project constructed by the United States, a licensee, or a pre-1920 permittee that is upstream from a non-Federal hydroelectric project must submit the following:

(1) Name and location of the headwater project, including the name of the stream on which it is located.

(2) The total nameplate rating of installed generating capacity of the project, expressed in kilowatts, with the portion of total capacity that represents pumped storage generating capacity separately designated.

(3) A description of the total storage capacity of the reservoir and allocation of storage capacity to each of its functions, such as dead storage, power storage, irrigation storage, and flood control storage. Identification, by reservoir elevation, of the portion of the reservoir assigned to each of its respective storage functions.

(4) An elevation-capacity curve, or a tabulation of reservoir pool elevations with corresponding reservoir storage capacities.

(5) A copy of rule curves, coordination contracts, agreements, or other relevant data governing the release of water from the reservoir, including a separate statement of their effective dates.

(6) A curve or tabulation showing actual reservoir pool elevations throughout the immediately preceding calendar year and for each year included in an investigation.

(7) The total annual gross generation of the hydroelectric plant in kilowatt-hours, not including energy from pumped storage operation.

(8) The total number of kilowatt-hours of energy produced from pumped storage operation.

(9) The investigation costs attributed to the power generation function of the project as of the close of the calendar year or at a specified date during the year, categorized according to that portion that is attributed to the specific power costs, and that portion that is attributed to the joint-use power costs.

(10) The portion of the joint-use power cost, and other costs required by law to be allocated to joint-use power cost, each item shown separately, that are attributable to the annual costs of interest, maintenance, and depreciation, identifying the annual interest rate and the method used to compute the depreciation charge, or the interest rate and period used to compute amortization if used in lieu of depreciation, including any differing interest rates used for major replacements or rehabilitation.
