
# Title 18 - Conservation of Power and Water Resources
## Chapter I - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Federal Power Act
#### PART 16 - PROCEDURES RELATING TO TAKEOVER AND RELICENSING OF LICENSED PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Applications for Projects Subject to Sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act
###### ยง 16.6 Notification procedures under section 15 of the Federal Power Act.
####### Requirement to notify.,http://www.ferc.gov

(b)In order to notify the Commission under section 15 of the Federal Power Act whether a licensee intends to file or not to file an application for new license, the licensee must file with the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site ata letter, that contains the following information:

(1) The licensee's name and address.

(2) The project number.

(3) The license expiration date.

(4) An unequivocal statement of the licensee's intention to file or not to file an application for a new license.

(5) The type of principal project works licensed, such as dam and reservoir, powerhouse, or transmission lines.

(6) Whether the application is for a power or nonpower license.

(7) The location of the project by state, county and stream, and, when appropriate, by city or nearby city.

(8) The installed plant capacity.

(9) The location or locations of all the sites where the information required under ยง 16.7 is available to the public.

(10) The names and mailing addresses of:

(i) Every county in which any part of the project is located, and in which any Federal facility that is used by the project is located;

(ii) Every city, town, or similar local political subdivision:

(A) In which any part of the project is located and any Federal facility that is used by the project is located, or

(B) That has a population of 5,000 or more people and is located within 15 miles of the project dam,

(iii) Every irrigation district, drainage district, or similar special purpose political subdivision:

(A) In which any part of the project is located and any Federal facility that is used by the project is located, or

(B) That owns, operates, maintains, or uses any project facility or any Federal facility that is used by the project;

(iv) Every other political subdivision in the general area of the project that there is reason to believe would be likely to be interested in, or affected by, the notification;

(v) Affected Indian tribes.
