
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 102 - RECORD DISCLOSURE AND PRIVACY
#### Subpart A - Disclosure of Information
##### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 102 - Records Maintained by SBA

a. Non-statistical information on pending, declined, withdrawn, or canceled applications.

b. Non-statistical information on defaults, delinquencies, losses etc.

c. Loan status, other than charged-off or paid-in-full.

d. Home disaster loan status and interest rate.

e. Financial statements, credit reports, business plans, plant lay-outs, marketing strategy, advertising plans, fiscal projections, pricing information, payroll information, private sector experience and contracts, IRS forms, purchase information, banking information, corporate structure, research plans and client list of applicant/recipient.

f. Portions of: Certificate of Competency records, Requests for Size Determinations, 8(a) Business Development Plans, loan applications, SBIC applications, loan officer's reports.

g. Internal documents not incorporated into final Agency action, pending internal recommendations on applications for assistance, SBA/attorney-client communications, pending litigation documents and investigatory documents. Discretionary disclosure policy must be utilized.

h. Personal history and financial statements, tax forms, resumes, all non-government career experience, communications regarding applicant's character, home addresses and telephone numbers, social security numbers, birth dates and medical records. Portions of Inspector General (IG) reports, audit reports, program investigation records and any other records which, if released, would interfere with the Government's law enforcement proceedings and/or would reveal the identity of a confidential source and documents relating to pending litigation and investigations. Requests for IG documents must be referred to the Office of the Inspector General, Counsel Division.

i. Financial information on portfolio companies.

j. Information originating from other agencies should be referred to those agencies for disclosure determinations.

a. Names and business addresses of recipients of approved loans, SBIC licenses, Certificates of Competency, lease guarantees, surety bond guarantees and requests for counseling.

b. Names of officers, directors, stockholders or partners of recipient firms.

c. Kinds and amounts of loans, loan terms, interest rates (except on home disaster loans), maturity dates, general purpose, etc.

d. Statistical data on assistance, loans, defaults, contracts, counseling, etc.

e. Decisions, rulings and records showing final Agency actions in specific factual situations if identifying details exempt from disclosure are first deleted.

f. Awarded contracts: names, amounts, dates, contracting agencies.

g. Identity of participating banks.

h. List of 8(a) participants, date of entry, FPPT dates and NAICS codes.

i. OHA opinions and decisions.

j. Names of SBA employees, grades, titles, and duty stations.
