
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 113 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF POLICIES OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND SBA ADMINISTRATOR
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 113.3-1 Consideration of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, handicap, or national origin.

(a) This regulation does not prohibit the consideration of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, handicap, or national origin if the purpose and effect are to remove or overcome the consequences of practices or impediments which have restricted the availability of, or participation in, the program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, handicap, or national origin. Where previous discriminatory practices or usage tends, on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, handicap, or national origin, to exclude individuals from participation in, to deny them the benefits of, or to subject them to discrimination under any program or activity to which this regulation applies, the applicant or recipient has an obligation to take reasonable action to remove or overcome the consequences of the prior discriminatory practice or usage, and to accomplish the purposes of this regulation. All programs and activities shall be administered in the most integrated setting possible.

(b) Nothing in this part shall prohibit the restriction of certain jobs to members of one sex if a bona fide occupational qualification can be demonstrated by the applicant or recipient. Custom or tradition is not a bona fide occupational qualification.

(c) Recipients shall take steps to ensure that communications with job applicants and employees who have vision and/or hearing disabilities are available in appropriate modes.

(d) Recipients shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped job applicant or employee UNLESS the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business. Factors to be considered in determining whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a recipient's business include:

(1) The overall size of the recipient's business with respect to number of employees, number and type of facilities, size of budget, and the financial condition of the business;

(2) The type of the recipient's operation, including the composition and structure of the recipient's workforce; and

(3) The nature and cost of the accommodation needed.

(e) Such accommodation may include making facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons, job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, the provision of readers or interpreters, and other similar actions.

(f) The final decision, when making a review or investigation of a complaint, as to whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a recipient business will be made by the compliance officials of the Small Business Administration.

(g) Recipients shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons, and shall not participate in a contractual relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped job applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this part. The relationships referred to in this paragraph include those with referral agencies, labor unions, organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and organizations providing training and apprenticeship programs.

(h) Nothing in this part shall apply to a religious corporation, association, educational institution or society with respect to the membership or the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, educational institution or society of its religious activities.
