
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 113 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF POLICIES OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND SBA ADMINISTRATOR
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 113.7 Procedure for effecting compliance.
###### Condition precedent.

(c)Under this part 113, no order suspending, terminating, refusing, calling, canceling, or accelerating repayment of financial assistance in whole or in part shall become effective until (1) SBA has advised the applicant or recipient of his failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means; (2) there has been an express finding on the record after an opportunity for an oral hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part; and (3) the initial decision has become final pursuant to ยง 134.227(b).

(d) Other means authorized by law. No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:

(1) SBA has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means.

(2) The action has been approved by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee.

(3) The applicant or recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance.

(4) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the applicant or recipient or other person. During this period of at least 10 days, additional efforts shall be made to persuade the applicant or recipient or other person to comply with this part and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.
