
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 114 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND REPRESENTATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF SBA EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart A - Administrative Tort Claims
##### ยง 114.107 What if my claim exceeds $25,000 or has other special features?

(a) The U.S. Attorney General or designee must approve in writing any award, compromise, or settlement of a claim in excess of $25,000. For this purpose, a principal claim and any derivative or subrogated claim are considered a single claim.

(b) SBA must consult with the Department of Justice before adjusting, determining, compromising, or settling a claim whenever the General Counsel or designee determines:

(1) The claim involves a new precedent or a new point of law; or

(2) The claim involves or may involve a question of policy; or

(3) The United States is or may be entitled to indemnity or contribution from a third party and SBA is unable to adjust the third party claim; or

(4) Approval of a claim, as a practical matter, will or may control the disposition of a related claim in which the amount to be paid may exceed $25,000.

(c) SBA must consult with the Department of Justice before adjusting, determining, compromising, or settling a claim whenever SBA learns that the United States, or any of its employees, agents, or cost-plus contractors, is involved in litigation based on a claim arising out of the same incident or transaction.

(d) SBA, acting through its General Counsel or designee, must make any referrals to the Department of Justice for approval or consultation by transmitting them in writing to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division.

(1) The referral must contain a short and concise statement of the facts and the reason for the request or referral, copies of the relevant portions of the claim file, and SBA's views and recommendations.

(2) SBA may make this referral at any time after a claim is presented.
