
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 115 - SURETY BOND GUARANTEE
#### Subpart A - Provisions for All Surety Bond Guarantees
##### ยง 115.18 Refusal to issue further guarantees; suspension and termination of PSB status.
###### Lack of business integrity.

(b)A Surety's participation in the Surety Bond Guarantee Programs may be denied, suspended, or terminated upon the occurrence of any event in paragraphs (b) (1) through (5) of this section involving any of the following Persons: The Surety or any of its officers, directors, partners, or other individuals holding at least 20% of the Surety's voting securities, and any agents, underwriters, or any individual empowered to act on behalf of any of the preceding Persons.

(1) If a State or other authority has revoked, canceled, or suspended the license required of such Person to engage in the surety business, the right of such Person to participate in the SBA Surety Bond Guarantee Program may be denied, terminated, or suspended, as applicable, in that jurisdiction or in other jurisdictions. Ineligibility or suspension from the Surety Bond Guarantee Programs is for at least the duration of the license suspension.

(2) If such Person has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with a misdemeanor or felony bearing on such Person's fitness to participate in the Surety Bond Guarantee Programs, the participation of such Person may be suspended pending disposition of the charge. Upon conviction, participation may be denied or terminated.

(3) If a final civil judgment is entered holding that such Person has committed a breach of trust or violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships, participation may be denied or terminated.

(4) If such Person has made a material misrepresentation or willfully false statement in the presentation of oral or written information to SBA in connection with an application for a surety bond guarantee or the presentation of a claim, or committed a material breach of the Prior Approval or PSB Agreement or a material violation of the regulations (all as described in ยง 115.19), participation may be denied or terminated.

(5) If such Person is debarred, suspended, voluntarily excluded from, or declared ineligible for participation in Federal programs, participation may be denied or terminated.
