
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 117 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF THE AGE DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 1975, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 117.12 Mediation.

(a) SBA shall, after ensuring that the complaint falls within the coverage of this Act and all information necessary for further processing is contained therein, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly within an exception, promptly refer the complaint to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS).

(b) SBA shall, to the extent possible, require the participation of the recipient and the complainant in the mediation process in an effort to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement of the complaint or make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible. Both parties need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of the complaint during the mediation period, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and recipient sign it.

(d) A copy of the written mediation agreement will be referred to SBA, and no further action will be taken unless it appears that either the complainant or the recipient (or other alleged discriminator subject to this part) fails to comply with the agreement.

(e) If at the end of 60 days after the receipt of a complaint by SBA, or at any time prior thereto, an agreement is reached or the mediator determines an agreement cannot be reached through mediation, the agreement or complaint will be returned to SBA.

(f) This 60-day period may be extended by the mediator, with the concurrence of SBA for not more than 30 days if the mediator determines that an agreement will likely be reached during the extended period.

(g) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained during the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the agency appointing the mediator.
