
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 117 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF THE AGE DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 1975, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 117.15 Procedure for effecting compliance.
##### General.

(a)(1) If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part by an applicant or recipient and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be resolved by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by suspending, terminating, or refusing any financial assistance approved but not yet disbursed to an applicant. In the case of loans partially or fully disbursed, compliance with this part may be effected by calling, canceling, terminating, accelerating repayment, or suspending in whole or in part the Federal financial assistance provided. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.

(2) In addition, compliance may be effected by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:

(i) Action by SBA to accelerate the maturity of the recipient's obligation;

(ii) Referral to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or this part; and

(iii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.

(3) If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part by an SBA office or official, the Assistant Administrator, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity & Civil Rights Compliance, will recommend appropriate corrective action to the Administrator. Any resulting adverse action against an SBA employee shall follow Office of Personnel Management and SBA procedures for such action.
