
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 117 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF THE AGE DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 1975, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 117.16 Hearings.
##### Procedures, evidence, and record.

(d)(1) The hearings, decisions, and any administrative review shall be conducted in conformity with the Administrative Procedure Act and 13 CFR part 134. Such rules of procedure should be consistent with this section, relate to the conduct of the hearing, provide for giving of notices to those referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments, and briefs, request for findings and other related matters. SBA, the complainant, if any, and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing, or as determined by the administrative law judge conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing.

(2) Technical rules of evidence may be waived by the administrative law judge conducting a hearing pursuant to this part, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available, and subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary. The administrative law judge may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made.
