
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 117 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES OF SBA - EFFECTUATION OF THE AGE DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 1975, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 117.17 Decisions and notices.
##### Decision by an administrative law judge.

(a)If the hearing is held by an administrative law judge, such administrative law judge shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record, including recommended findings and proposed decision, to the Administrator for a final decision and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and the complainant. Where the initial decision is made by the administrative law judge, the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days of the mailing of such notice of initial decision, file with the Administrator exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the Administrator may, by motion within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that he/she will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of such notice of review, the Administrator shall review the initial decision and issue his/her decision thereon, including the reasons therefor. The decision of the Administrator shall be mailed promptly to the applicant or recipient, and the complainant, if any. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Administrator.
