
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 102 - RECORD DISCLOSURE AND PRIVACY
#### Subpart B - Protection of Privacy and Access to Individual Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
##### ยง 102.40 Computer matching.
###### Verification.

(c)In order to protect any individual whose records are used in matching programs, SBA and any recipient agency or non-Federal agency may not suspend, terminate, reduce, or make a final denial of any financial assistance or payment under the Federal benefit program to such individual, or take other adverse action against such individual as a result of information produced by such matching programs until such information has been independently verified.

(1) Independent verification requires independent investigation and confirmation of any information used as a basis for an adverse action against an individual including, where applicable:

(i) The amount of the asset or income involved,

(ii) Whether such individual actually has or had access to such asset or income or such individual's own use, and

(iii) The period or periods when the individual actually had such asset or income.

(2) SBA and any recipient agency or non-Federal agency may not suspend, terminate, reduce, or make a final denial of any financial assistance or payment under a Federal benefit program, or take other adverse action as a result of information produced by a matching program,

(i) Unless such individual has received notice from such agency containing a statement of its findings and information of the opportunity to contest such findings, and

(ii) Until the subsequent expiration of any notice period provided by the program's governing statute or regulations, or 30 days. Such opportunity to contest may be satisfied by notice, hearing, and appeal rights governing such Federal benefit program. The exercise of any such rights shall not affect rights available under the Privacy Act.

(3) SBA may take any appropriate action otherwise prohibited by the above if SBA determines that the public health or safety may be adversely affected or significantly threatened during the notice period required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
