
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### Participating Lender Financings
###### ยง 120.425 What are the minimum elements that SBA will require before consenting to a securitization?

A securitizer must comply with the following three conditions:

(a) Capital Requirement-All securitizers must be considered to be "well capitalized" by their regulator. SBA will consider a depository institution to be in compliance with this section if it meets the definition of "well capitalized" used by its bank regulator. SBA's capital requirement does not change the requirements that banks already meet. For nondepository institutions, SBA, as the regulator, will consider a non-depository institution to be "well capitalized" if it maintains a minimum unencumbered paid in capital and paid in surplus equal to at least 10 percent of its assets, excluding the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans. The capital charge applies to the remaining balance outstanding on the unguaranteed portion of the securitizer's 7(a) loans in its portfolio and in any securitization pools. Each nondepository institution must submit annual audited financial statements demonstrating that it has met SBA's capital requirement.

(b) Subordinated Tranche-A securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary must retain a tranche of the securities issued in the securitization (subordinated tranche) equal to the greater of two times the securitizer's Loss Rate or 2 percent of the principal balance outstanding at the time of securitization of the unguaranteed portion of the loans in the securitization. This tranche must be subordinate to all other securities issued in the securitization including other subordinated tranches. The securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary may not sell, pledge, transfer, assign, sell participations in, or otherwise convey the subordinated tranche during the first 6 years after the closing date of the securitization. The securities evidencing the subordinated tranche must bear a legend stating that the securities may not be sold until 6 years after the issue date. SBA's Securitization Committee may modify the formula for determining the tranche size for a securitizer creating a securitization from a pool of loans located in a region affected by a severe economic downturn if the Securitization Committee concludes that enforcing this section might exacerbate the adverse economic conditions in the region. SBA will work with the securitizer to verify the accuracy of the data used to make the Loss Rate calculation.

(c) PLP Privilege Suspension.
