
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### Participating Lender Financings
###### ยง 120.425 What are the minimum elements that SBA will require before consenting to a securitization?
####### Suspension:

(1)If a securitizer's Currency Rate declines, SBA may suspend the securitizer's PLP unilateral loan approval privileges (PLP approval privileges) if the decline from the securitizer's ICR is more than the Benchmark Number as published in thefrom time to time and the securitizer's Currency Rate Percentage is less than its ICRP. The securitizer will first be placed on probation for one quarter. If, at the end of the probationary quarter the securitizer has not met either of the following conditions in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section, SBA will suspend the securitizer's PLP approval privileges and will not approve additional securitization requests from that securitizer. SBA will provide written notice at least 10 days prior to the effective date of suspension. The suspension will last a minimum of 3 months. During the suspension period, the securitizer must use Certified Lender or Regular Procedures to process 7(a) loan applications. The prohibition will end if, at the end of the probationary quarter: (i) the securitizer has improved its Currency Rate to above its ICR less the Benchmark Number; or (ii) its Currency Rate Percentage is either the same or greater than its ICRP.
