
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### Other Conveyances
###### ยง 120.432 Under what circumstances does this subpart permit sales of, or sales of participating interests in, 7(a) loans?

(a) A Lender may sell all of its interest in a 7(a) loan to another Lender operating under a current Loan Guarantee Agreement (SBA Form 750) ("participating Lender"), with SBA's prior written consent, which SBA may withhold in its sole discretion. A Lender may not sell any of its interest in a 7(a) loan to a nonparticipating Lender. The purchasing Lender must take possession of the promissory note and other loan documents, and service the sold 7(a) loan. The purchasing Lender purchases the loan subject to SBA's existing rights including its right to deny liability on its guarantee as provided in ยง 120.524. After purchase, the purchased loan will be subject to the purchasing Lender's Loan Guarantee Agreement. This paragraph (a) applies to all 7(a) loans purchased from any Federal or state banking regulator, any receiver, or any conservator, unless SBA agrees otherwise in writing. This paragraph (a) applies to all 7(a) loans purchased from any Federal or state banking regulator, any receiver, or any conservator, unless SBA agrees otherwise in writing.

(b) A Lender may sell, or sell a participating interest in, a part of a 7(a) loan to another participating Lender. If the Lender retains ownership of a part of the unguaranteed portion of the loan equal to at least 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan, the Lender must give SBA prior written notice of the transaction, and the Lender must continue to hold the note and service the loan. If a Lender retains ownership of a part of the unguaranteed portion of the loan equal to less than 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan, the Lender must obtain SBA's prior written consent to the transaction, which consent SBA may withhold in its sole discretion. The Lender must continue to hold the note and other loan documents, and service the loan unless SBA otherwise agrees in its sole discretion.

(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of ownership a Lender has retained, SBA will not consider a Lender to be the owner of the part of a loan in which it has sold a participating interest.
