
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### SBA Supervised Lenders
###### ยง 120.462 What are SBA's additional requirements on capital maintenance for SBA Supervised Lenders?
####### Capital plan.

(c)(1) The board of directors of each SBA Supervised Lender must establish, adopt, and maintain a formal written capital plan. The plan must include any interim capital targets that are necessary to achieve the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy goals as well as the minimum capital standards. The plan must address any projected dividend goals, equity retirements, or any other anticipated action that may decrease the SBA Supervised Lender's capital. The plan must set forth the circumstances in which capital retirements (e.g., dividends, distributions of capital or purchase of treasury stock) can occur. In addition to factors described above that must be considered in meeting the minimum standards, the board of directors must also address the following factors in developing the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy plan:

(i) Management capability;

(ii) Quality of operating policies, procedures, and internal controls;

(iii) Quality and quantity of earnings;

(iv) Asset quality and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses within the loan portfolio;

(v) Sufficiency of liquidity; and

(vi) Any other risk-oriented activities or conditions that warrant additional capital (e.g., portfolio growth rate).

(2) An SBA Supervised Lender must keep its capital plan current, updating it at least annually or more often as operating conditions may warrant.
