
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### SBA Supervised Lenders
###### ยง 120.463 Regulatory accounting - What are SBA's regulatory accounting requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders?
####### Specific accounting requirements.

(e)(1) Each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain an allowance for losses on loans and other assets that is sufficient to absorb all probable and estimated losses that may reasonably be expected based on the SBA Supervised Lender's historical performance and reasonably-anticipated events. Each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain documentation of its loan loss allowance calculations and analysis in sufficient detail to permit the SBA to understand the assumptions used and the application of those assumptions to the assets of the SBA Supervised Lender.

(2) The unguaranteed portions of loans determined to be uncollectible must be charged-off promptly. If the portion determined to be uncollectible by the SBA Supervised Lender is different from the amount determined by its auditors or the SBA, the SBA Supervised Lender must charge-off such amount as the SBA may direct.

(3) Each SBA Supervised Lender must classify loans as:

(i) "Nonaccrual," if any portion of the principal or interest is determined to be uncollectible and

(ii) "Formally restructured," if the loan meets the "troubled debt restructuring" definition set forth in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 15, Accounting by Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings.

(4) When one loan to a borrower is classified as nonaccrual or formally restructured, all loans to that borrower must be so classified unless the SBA Supervised Lender can document that the loans have independent sources of repayment.
