
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### SBA Supervised Lenders
###### ยง 120.465 Civil penalty for late submission of required reports.
####### Requests for reduction or exemption.

(f)(1) An SBA Supervised Lender may request a reduction or exemption from the civil penalty in writing to SBA. The request must reference the required report, its due date and the amount sought for reduction, and state in detail the reasons for the reduction. SBA will consider the following factors:

(i) Whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file timely and it was not due to willful neglect;

(ii) Whether the SBA Supervised Lender has demonstrated to SBA's satisfaction that it has modified its internal procedures to comply with reporting requirements in the future; and

(iii) Whether the SBA Supervised Lender has demonstrated to SBA's satisfaction, based on financial information fully disclosed together with its request, that it would have difficulty paying the civil penalty assessed.

(2) SBA must also determine that a reduction or exemption is not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of SBA.

(3) SBA may in writing approve the exemption, reduce the civil penalty, or deny the exemption.

(4) If SBA grants the reduction request or denies the reduction or exemption, the SBA Supervised Lender must pay the amount owed within 30 days of the letter date. Civil penalties will accrue while the request is pending.
