
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart D - Lenders
##### Small Business Lending Companies (SBLC)
###### ยง 120.470 What are SBA's additional requirements for SBLCs?
####### Common control.

(f)(1) An SBLC must not control, be controlled by, or be under common control with another SBLC.

(2) In the case of a purchase of an SBLC by an organization that already owns an SBLC, the purchasing entity will have six months to submit a plan to SBA for the divestiture of one of the SBLCs. All divestiture plans must be approved by SBA and SBA may withhold approval in its discretion. Divestiture of the SBLC must occur within one year of purchase date.

(3) Without prior written SBA approval, an Associate of one SBLC must not be an Associate of another SBLC or of any entity which directly or indirectly controls, or is under common control with, another SBLC.

(4) For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, common control means a condition where two or more SBLCs, either through ownership, management, contract, or otherwise, are under the Control of one group or Person (as defined in ยง 120.10 of this chapter). Two or more SBLCs are presumed to be under common control if they are Affiliates of each other by reason of common ownership or common officers, directors, or general partners.

(5) "Affiliate" has the meaning set forth in ยง 121.103 of this chapter.

(6) "Control" means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of an SBLC or other concern, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. The common control presumption may be rebutted by evidence satisfactory to SBA.
