
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 103 - STANDARDS FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH SBA
#### ยง 103.4 What is "good cause" for suspension or revocation?
##### Small Business Administration,SBA

(d) Implying or stating that the work to be performed for an Applicant will include use of political or other special influence with SBA. Examples include indicating that the entity is affiliated with or paid, endorsed or employed by SBA, advertising using the wordsorin a manner that implies SBA's endorsement or sponsorship, use of SBA's seal or symbol, and giving a "guaranty" to an Applicant that the application will be approved.

(e) Charging or proposing to charge any fee that does not bear a necessary and reasonable relationship to the services actually rendered or expenses actually incurred in connection with a matter before SBA or which is materially inconsistent with the provisions of an applicable compensation agreement or Lender Service Provider agreement. A fee based solely on a percentage of a loan or guarantee amount can be reasonable, depending on the circumstances of a case and the services actually rendered.

(f) Engaging in any conduct indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty, including debarment, criminal conviction, or civil judgment within the last seven years for fraud, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, false statements, conspiracy, receiving stolen property, false claims, or obstruction of justice.

(g) Acting as both a Lender Service Provider or Referral Agent and a Packager for an Applicant on the same SBA business loan and receiving compensation for such activity from both the Applicant and lender. A limited exception to the "two master" prohibition in this paragraph (g) exists when an Agent acts as a Packager and is compensated by the Applicant for packaging services; also acts as a Referral Agent and is compensated by the lender for those activities; discloses the referral activities to the Applicant; and discloses the packaging activities to the lender.

(h) Violating materially the terms of any compensation agreement or Lender Service Provider agreement provided for in ยง 103.5.

(i) Violating or assisting in the violation of any SBA regulations, policies, or procedures of which the Applicant has been made aware.
