
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart H - Development Company Loan Program (504)
##### Requirements for CDC Certification and Operation
###### § 120.820 CDC Affiliation.

(a) A CDC must be independent and must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103 of this chapter) with any Person (as defined in § 120.10) except as permitted under this section.

(b) A CDC may be affiliated with an entity (other than a 7(a) Lender or another CDC) whose function is economic development in the same Area of Operations and that is either a non-profit entity or a State or local government or political subdivision (e.g., council of governments).

(c) A CDC must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103) with or invest, directly or indirectly, in a 7(a) Lender. A CDC that was affiliated with a 7(a) Lender as of November 6, 2003 may continue such affiliation.

(d) A CDC must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103 of this chapter) with another CDC. In addition, a CDC must not directly or indirectly invest in or finance another CDC, except with the prior written approval of D/FA or designee and D/OCRM or designee if they determine in their discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program.

(e) A CDC may remain affiliated with a for-profit entity (other than a 7(a) Lender) if such affiliation existed prior to March 21, 2014. A CDC may also be affiliated with a for-profit entity (other than a 7(a) Lender) whose function is economic development in the same Area of Operations with the prior written approval of the D/FA or designee if he or she determines in his or her discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program.

(f) A CDC must not directly or indirectly invest in a Licensee (as defined in § 107.50 of this chapter) licensed by SBA under the SBIC program authorized in Part A of Title III of the Small Business Investment Act, 15 U.S.C. 681 et seq. A CDC that has an SBA-approved investment in a Licensee as of November 6, 2003 may retain such investment.
