
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart H - Development Company Loan Program (504)
##### Requirements for CDC Certification and Operation
###### § 120.823 CDC Board of Directors.
####### Loan Committee.

(ii)The Board of Directors may establish a Loan Committee. The Loan Committee may exercise the authority of the Board only as set forth below; however, the delegation of its authority does not relieve the Board of its responsibility imposed by law or Loan Program Requirements. If the Board of Directors chooses to establish a Loan Committee, no CDC staff or manager may serve on the Loan Committee. The Loan Committee must:

(A) Be chosen by the Board of Directors, and consist of individuals with a background in either financial risk management, commercial lending, or legal issues relating to commercial lending who are not associated with another CDC;

(B) Have a Quorum of at least four Loan Committee members authorized to vote;

(C) Have at least two (2) Loan Committee members with commercial lending experience satisfactory to SBA;

(D) Have no actual or appearance of a conflict of interest, including for example, a Loan Committee member participating in deliberations on a loan for which the Third Party Lender is the member's employer or the member is otherwise associated with the Third Party Lender; and

(E) Consist only of Loan Committee members who live or work in the CDC's State of incorporation or in an area that meets the definition of a Local Economic Area for the CDC, except that, for Projects that are financed under a CDC's Multi-State authority, the CDC must satisfy the requirements of either § 120.835(c)(1) or (2) when voting on that Project.

(5) Ensuring that the CDC's expenses are reasonable and customary;

(6) Hiring directly an independent auditor to provide the financial statements in accordance with Loan Program Requirements;

(7) Monitoring the CDC's portfolio performance on a regular basis;

(8) Reviewing a semiannual report on portfolio performance from the CDC manager, which would include, but not be limited to, asset quality and industry concentration;

(9) Ensuring that the CDC establishes and maintains adequate reserves for operations;

(10) Ensuring that the CDC invests in economic development in each of the States in its Area of Operations in which it has a portfolio, and approving each investment. If the investment is included in the CDC's budget, the Board's approval of the budget may be deemed approval of the investment. If the investment is not included in the budget, the Board must separately approve the investment;

(11) Establishing a policy in the Bylaws of the CDC prohibiting an actual conflict of interest or the appearance of same, and enforcing such policy (see § 120.140 and § 120.851);

(12) Retaining accountability for all of the actions of the CDC;

(13) Establishing written internal control policies, in accordance with § 120.826;

(14) Establishing commercially reasonable loan approval policies, procedures, and standards. The Bylaws must include any delegations of authority to the Loan Committee and Executive Committee, if either Committee has been established. In addition, the CDC must establish and set forth in detail in a policy manual its credit approval process. All 504 loan applications must have credit approval prior to submission to the Agency. The Loan Committee, if established, may be delegated the authority to provide credit approval for loans up to $2,000,000 but, for loans of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000, the Loan Committee's action must be ratified by the Board or Executive Committee prior to Debenture closing. Only the Board or Executive Committee, if authorized by the Board, may provide credit approval for loans greater than $2,000,000.

(15) All members of the Board of Directors must annually certify in writing that they have read and understand this section, and copies of the certification must be included in the Annual Report to SBA.

(e) The Board of Directors shall maintain Directors' and Officers' Liability and Errors and Omissions insurance in amounts established by SBA that are based on the size of the CDC's portfolio and other relevant factors.
