
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart H - Development Company Loan Program (504)
##### Requirements for CDC Certification and Operation
###### ยง 120.824 Professional management and staff, and contracts for services.
####### Professional Services Contracts between CDCs.

(d)Notwithstanding the prohibition in 13 CFR 120.820(d) against a CDC affiliating with another CDC, a CDC may obtain services through a written contract with another CDC for managing, marketing, packaging, processing, closing, servicing, independent loan review, or liquidation functions, provided that:

(1) The contract between the CDCs must be pre-approved by the D/FA (or designee), in consultation with the D/OCRM (or designee), who determines in his or her discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program and that the terms and conditions of the contract are satisfactory to SBA. For management services, a CDC may contract with another CDC only in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) Except for contracts for liquidation services and independent loan reviews:

(i) The CDCs entering into the contract must be located in the same SBA Region or, if not located in the same SBA Region, must be located in contiguous States. For purposes of this provision, the location of a CDC is the CDC's State of incorporation;

(ii) A CDC may provide assistance to only one CDC per State; and

(iii) No CDC may provide assistance to another CDC in its State of incorporation or in any State in which it has Multi-State authority.

(3) The Board of Directors for each CDC entering into the contract must be separate and independent and may not include any common directors. In addition, if either of the CDCs is for-profit, neither CDC may own any stock in the other CDC. The CDCs are also prohibited from comingling any funds.

(4) With respect to contracts for independent loan reviews, CDCs may not review each other's portfolios or exchange any other services, nor may they enter into any other arrangement with each other that could appear to bias the outcome or integrity of the independent loan review.

(5) The contract must satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section.
