
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart I - Risk-Based Lender Oversight
##### Supervision
###### ยง 120.1055 Review and examination results.
####### Response to review and examination Reports.

(b)SBA Lenders and Intermediaries must respond to Report findings, recommendations, and corrective actions, if any, in writing to SBA and, if requested, submit proposed corrective actions and/or a capital restoration plan. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must respond within 45 business days from the date the Report is received unless SBA notifies the SBA Lender or Intermediary in writing that the response, proposed corrective actions or capital restoration plan is to be filed within a different time period (either shortened or extended in SBA's discretion). The SBA Lender or Intermediary response must address each finding, recommendation, and corrective action. In proposing a corrective action or capital restoration plan, the SBA Lender or Intermediary must detail the steps it will take to correct the finding(s); the time within which each step will be taken; the timeframe for accomplishing the entire corrective action plan; and the person(s) or department at the SBA Lender or Intermediary charged with carrying out the corrective action or capital restoration plan, as applicable. In addition, SBA Lenders and Intermediaries must implement corrective actions within 90 calendar days from the date the Report or SBA's letter requiring corrective action is received, unless SBA provides written notice of another timeframe. For purposes of this paragraph (b), a Report will be deemed to have been received on the date it was emailed to the last known email address of the SBA Lender or Intermediary unless the SBA Lender or Intermediary can provide compelling evidence to the contrary.
