
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart I - Risk-Based Lender Oversight
##### Enforcement Actions
###### ยง 120.1500 Types of formal enforcement actions - SBA Lenders.
####### Formal enforcement actions specific to CDCs.

(e)In addition to those enforcement actions listed in paragraph (a) of this section, SBA may take any one or more of the following enforcement actions specific to CDCs:

(1) Require the CDC to transfer part or all of its existing 504 loan portfolio and/or part or all of its pending 504 loan applications to SBA, another CDC, or any other entity designated by SBA. Any such transfer may be on a temporary or permanent basis, in SBA's discretion; or

(2) Instruct the Central Servicing Agent to withhold payment of servicing, late and/or other fee(s) to the CDC.

(3) Apply to any Federal court of competent jurisdiction for the court to take exclusive jurisdiction, without notice, of the CDC, and SBA shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver of SBA's choosing to hold, administer, operate and/or liquidate the CDC; and to such injunctive or other equitable relief as may be appropriate. SBA will limit the scope of the receivership to the CDC's assets related to the SBA loan program(s) except where the CDC's business is almost exclusively SBA-related. SBA will only seek a receivership if there is either the existence of fraud or false statements, or if the CDC has refused to cooperate with SBA enforcement action instructions or orders. Without limiting the foregoing and with SBA's consent, the receiver may take possession of the portfolio of 504 loans and/or pending 504 loan applications, including for the purpose of carrying out an enforcement order under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
