
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart I - Risk-Based Lender Oversight
##### Enforcement Actions
###### ยง 120.1600 General procedures for formal enforcement actions against SBA Lenders, SBA Supervised Lenders, Other Regulated SBLCs, Management Officials, Other Persons, and Intermediaries.
####### SBA Lender's or Intermediary's opportunity to object.

(2)(i) An SBA Lender or Intermediary that desires to contest a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension must file, within 30 calendar days of its receipt of the notice or within some other term established by SBA in its notice, a written objection with the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other SBA official identified in the notice. Notice will be presumed to have been received within five days of the date of the notice unless the SBA Lender or Intermediary can provide compelling evidence to the contrary.

(ii) The objection must set forth in detail all grounds known to the SBA Lender or Intermediary to contest the proposed action or immediate suspension and all mitigating factors, and must include documentation that the SBA Lender or Intermediary believes is most supportive of its objection. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must exhaust this administrative remedy in order to preserve its objection to a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension.

(iii) If an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show legitimate reasons as determined by SBA in SBA's discretion why it does not understand the reasons given by SBA in its notice of the action, the Agency will provide clarification. SBA will provide the requested clarification in writing to the SBA Lender or Intermediary or notify the SBA Lender or Intermediary in writing that SBA has determined that such clarification is not necessary. SBA, in its discretion, will further advise in writing whether the SBA Lender or Intermediary may have additional time to present its objection to the notice. Requests for clarification must be made to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority in writing and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the timeframe given by the notice for response.

(iv) An SBA Lender or Intermediary may request additional time to respond to SBA's notice if it can show that there are compelling reasons why it is not able to respond within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice. If such requests are submitted to the Agency, SBA may, in its discretion, provide the SBA Lender or Intermediary with additional time to respond to the notice of proposed action or immediate suspension. Requests for additional time to respond must be made in writing to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other official identified in the notice and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice.

(v) Prior to the issuance of a final agency decision by SBA, if an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show that there is newly discovered material evidence which, despite the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's exercise of due diligence, could not have been discovered within the timeframe given by SBA to respond to a notice, or that there are compelling reasons beyond the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's control as to why it was not able to present a material fact or argument to SBA, and that the SBA Lender or Intermediary has been prejudiced by not being able to present such information, the SBA Lender or Intermediary may submit such information to SBA and request that the Agency consider such information in its final agency decision.
