
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart I - Risk-Based Lender Oversight
##### Enforcement Actions
###### ยง 120.1600 General procedures for formal enforcement actions against SBA Lenders, SBA Supervised Lenders, Other Regulated SBLCs, Management Officials, Other Persons, and Intermediaries.
####### SBA's notice of final agency decision on a formal enforcement action where an SBA Lender or Intermediary filed objection to the proposed action or immediate suspension.

(3)(i) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a proposed formal enforcement action other than an immediate suspension in accordance with this section, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary advising whether SBA is undertaking the proposed formal enforcement action and setting forth the grounds for the decision. SBA will issue such a notice of decision within 90 days of either receiving the objection or from when additional information is provided under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section, whichever is later, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.

(ii) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a notice of immediate suspension, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary within 30 days of receiving the objection advising whether SBA is continuing with the immediate suspension, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time. If the SBA Lender or Intermediary submits additional information to SBA (under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section) after submitting its objection but before SBA issues its final agency decision, SBA must issue its final agency decision within 30 days of receiving such information, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.

(iii) Prior to issuing a notice of decision, SBA in its discretion can request additional information from the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary or other partiesand conduct any other investigation it deems appropriate. If SBA determines, in its discretion, to consider an untimely objection, it must issue a notice of final agency decision pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).
