
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 120 - BUSINESS LOANS
#### Subpart I - Risk-Based Lender Oversight
##### Enforcement Actions
###### ยง 120.1600 General procedures for formal enforcement actions against SBA Lenders, SBA Supervised Lenders, Other Regulated SBLCs, Management Officials, Other Persons, and Intermediaries.
####### Response to notice.

(2)(i) An SBLC may respond to the notice by stating why a capital directive should not be issued and/or by proposing alternative contents for the capital directive or seeking other appropriate relief. The response must include any information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other relevant evidence that supports its position. The response may include a plan for achieving the minimum capital requirement applicable to the SBLC. The response must be in writing and delivered to the SBA within 30 days after the date on which the SBLC received the notice. In its discretion, SBA may extend the time period for good cause. SBA may shorten the 30-day time period:

(A) When, in the opinion of SBA, the condition of the SBLC so requires, provided that the SBLC will be informed promptly of the new time period;

(B) With the consent of the SBLC; or

(C) When the SBLC already has advised SBA that it cannot or will not achieve its applicable minimum capital requirement.

(ii) Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by SBA will constitute a waiver of any objections to the proposed capital directive.
