
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 121 - SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Size Eligibility Provisions and Standards
##### Size Eligibility Requirements for Government Procurement
###### ยง 121.404 When is the size status of a business concern determined?
####### Effect of size certification and recertification.

(g)A concern that represents itself as a small business and qualifies as small at the time it submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation) which includes price is generally considered to be a small business throughout the life of that contract. Similarly, a concern that represents itself as a small business and qualifies as small after a required recertification under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is generally considered to be a small business throughout the life of that contract. Where a concern grows to be other than small, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a small business, except that a required recertification as other than small under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section changes the firm's status for future options and orders. The following exceptions apply to this paragraph (g):

(1) Within 30 days of an approved contract novation, a contractor must recertify its small business size status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it is other than small. If the contractor is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals.

(2)(i) In the case of a merger, sale, or acquisition, where contract novation is not required, the contractor must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its small business size status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it is other than small. If the contractor is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.

(ii) Recertification is required:

(A) When a concern, or an affiliate of the concern, acquires or is acquired by another concern;

(B) From both the acquired concern and the acquiring concern if each has been awarded a contract as a small business; and

(C) In the context of a joint venture that has been awarded a contract or order as a small business, from any partner to the joint venture that has been acquired, is acquiring, or has merged with another business entity.

(iii) If the merger, sale or acquisition occurs after offer but prior to award, the offeror must recertify its size to the contracting officer prior to award. If the merger, sale or acquisition (including agreements in principal) occurs within 180 days of the date of an offer and the offeror is unable to recertify as small, it will not be eligible as a small business to receive the award of the contract. If the merger, sale or acquisition (including agreements in principal) occurs more than 180 days after the date of an offer, award can be made, but it will not count as an award to small business.
