
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 121 - SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Size Eligibility Provisions and Standards
##### Size Eligibility Requirements for Government Procurement
###### § 121.404 When is the size status of a business concern determined?
####### i.e.,

(iv) Recertification is not required when the ownership of a concern that is at least 51% owned by an entity (tribe, Alaska Native Corporation, or Community Development Corporation) changes to or from a wholly-owned business concern of the same entity, as long as the ultimate owner remains that entity.

(3) For the purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its small business size status no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter. If the contractor certifies that it is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract towards its small business prime contracting goals. A contracting officer may also request size recertification, as he or she deems appropriate, prior to the 120-day point in the fifth year of a long-term multiple award contract. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.

(i) A business concern that certified itself as other than small, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify itself as small for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard.

(ii) Re-certification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, non-manufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract. However, a contracting officer may require a subcontracting plan if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size recertification.

(iii) A request for a size re-certification shall include the size standard in effect at the time of re-certification that corresponds to the NAICS code that that was initially assigned to the contract.

(iv) A contracting officer must assign a NAICS code and size standard to each order under a long-term contract. The NAICS code and size standard assigned to an order must correspond to a NAICS code and size standard assigned to the underlying long-term contract and must be assigned in accordance with §§ 121.402(b) and (c). A concern will be considered small for that order only if it certified itself as small under the same or lower size standard.

(v) Where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their size status in response to a solicitation for an order, SBA will determine size as of the date the concern submits its self-representation as part of its response to the solicitation for the order.

(4) The requirements in paragraphs (g)(1), (2), and (3) of this section apply to Multiple Award Contracts. However, if the Multiple Award Contract was set-aside for small businesses, partially set-aside for small businesses, or reserved for small business, then in the case of a contract novation, or merger or acquisition where no novation is required, where the resulting contractor is now other than small, the agency cannot count any new or pending orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals. This includes set-asides, partial set-asides, and reserves for 8(a) BD Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO SBCs, and ED/WOSBs.
