
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 121 - SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Size Eligibility Provisions and Standards
##### Procedures for Size Protests and Requests for Formal Size Determinations
###### ยง 121.1001 Who may initiate a size protest or request a formal size determination?
####### see,see

(iii) The SBA Associate Administrator for Investment or designee may request a formal size determination for any purpose relating to the SBIC program (part 107 of this chapter) or the NMVC program (part 108 of this chapter). A formal size determination includes a request to determine whether or not affiliation exists between two or more entities for any purpose relating to the SBIC program.

(2) For SBA's 8(a) BD program:

(i) Concerning initial or continued 8(a) BD eligibility, the following entities may request a formal size determination:

(A) The 8(a) BD applicant concern or Participant; or

(B) The Director of the Division of Program Certification and Eligibility or the Associate Administrator for Business Development.

(ii) Concerning individual sole source 8(a) contract awards, the following entities may request a formal size determination:

(A) The Participant nominated for award of the particular sole source contract;

(B) The SBA program official with authority to execute the 8(a) contract or, where applicable, the procuring activity contracting officer who has been delegated SBA's 8(a) contract execution functions; or

(C) The SBA District Director in the district office that services the Participant, or the Associate Administrator for Business Development.

(3) For SBA's Certificate of Competency Program, the following entities may request a formal size determination:

(i) The offeror who has applied for a COC; and

(ii) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting.

(4) For SBA's sale or lease of government property, the following entities may request a formal size determination:

(i) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting; and

(ii) Authorized officials of other Federal agencies administering a property sales program.

(5) For eligibility to pay reduced patent fees, the following entities may request a formal size determination:

(i) The applicant for the reduced patent fees; and

(ii) The Patent and Trademark Office.

(6) For purposes of determining compliance with small business requirements of another Government agency program not otherwise specified in this section, an official with authority to administer the program involved may request a formal size determination.

(7) In connection with initial or continued eligibility for the WOSB program, the following may request a formal size determination:

(i) The applicant or WOSB/EDWOSB; or

(ii) The Director of Government Contracting or the Deputy Director, Program and Resource Management, for the Office of Government Contracting.

(8) In connection with initial or continued eligibility for the HUBZone program, the following may request a formal size determination:

(i) The applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern; or

(ii) The Director, Office of HUBZone, or designee.

(9) For other purposes related to protecting the integrity of the Federal procurement process, including validating that firms listed in the System for Award Management database are small, the Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting may initiate a formal size determination when sufficient information exists that calls into question a firm's small business status. The current date will be used to determine size, and SBA will initiate the process to remove from the database the small business designation of any firm found to be other than small.

(10) For purposes of the small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program authorized pursuant to ยง 125.9 of this chapter (based on its status as a small business for its primary or identified secondary NAICS code), the business concern seeking to be a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; or SBA may request a formal size determination.

(11) For purposes of determining compliance with small business requirements for firms relying upon small business status advisory opinions, the Associate General Counsel, Office of Procurement Law may request a formal size determination. Additionally, any firm that is the subject of a small business status advisory opinion holding that it is other than small may request a formal size determination.

(12) In connection with eligibility for the SDVO program, the following may request a formal size determination:

(i) The SDVO business concern; or

(ii) The Director of Government Contracting or designee.

(13) The SBA Inspector General may request a formal size determination with respect to any of the programs identified in paragraph (b) of this section.
