
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 121 - SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Other Applicable Provisions
##### Waivers of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for Classes of Products and Individual Contracts
###### ยง 121.1204 What are the procedures for requesting and granting waivers?
####### Waivers for classes of products.

(a)(1) SBA may, at its own initiative, examine a class of products for possible waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule.

(2) Any interested person, business, association, or Federal agency may submit a request for a waiver for a particular class of products. Requests should be addressed or hand-carried to the Director, Office of Government Contracting, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416.

(3) Requests for a waiver of a class of products need not be in any particular form, but should include a statement of the class of products to be waived, the applicable NAICS code, and detailed information on the efforts made to identify small business manufacturers or processors for the class.

(4) If SBA decides that there are small business manufacturers or processors in the Federal procurement market, it will deny the request for waiver, issue notice of the denial, and provide the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the sources found. If SBA does not initially confirm the existence of small business manufacturers or processors in the Federal market, it will:

(i) Publish notices in the Commerce Business Daily and theseeking information on small business manufacturers or processors, announcing a notice of intent to waive the Nonmanufacturer Rule for that class of products and affording the public a 15-day comment period; and

(ii) If no small business sources are identified, publish a notice in thestating that no small business sources were found and that a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for that class of products has been granted.

(5) An expedited procedure for issuing a class waiver may be used for emergency situations, but only if the contracting officer provides a determination to the Director, Office of Government Contracting that the procurement is proceeding under the authority of FAR ยง 6.302-2 (48 CFR 6.302-2) for "unusual and compelling urgency," or provides a determination materially the same as one of unusual and compelling urgency. Under the expedited procedure, if a small business manufacturer or processor is not identified by a PASS search, the SBA will grant the waiver for the class of products and then publish a notice in theThe notice will state that a waiver has been granted, and solicit public comment for future procurements.

(6) The decision by the Director, Office of Government Contracting to grant or deny a waiver is the final decision by the Agency.

(7) A waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for classes of products has no specific time limitation. SBA will, however, periodically review existing class waivers to the Nonmanufacturer Rule to determine if small business manufacturers or processors have become available to participate in the Federal market for the waived classes of products and the waiver should be terminated.

(i) Upon SBA's receipt of evidence that a small business manufacturer or processor exists in the Federal market for a waived class of products, the waiver will be terminated by the Director, Office of Government Contracting. This evidence may be discovered by SBA during a periodic review of existing waivers or may be brought to SBA's attention by other sources.

(ii) SBA will announce its intent to terminate a waiver for a class of products through the publication of a notice in theasking for comments regarding the proposed termination.

(iii) Unless public comment reveals that no small business manufacturer or processor in fact exists for the class of products in question, SBA will publish a final Notice of Termination in the
