
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 121 - SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Other Applicable Provisions
##### Waivers of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for Classes of Products and Individual Contracts
###### ยง 121.1204 What are the procedures for requesting and granting waivers?
####### Individual waivers for specific solicitations.

(b)(1) A contracting officer's request for a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for specific solicitations need not be in any particular form, but must, at a minimum, include:

(i) A definitive statement of the specific item to be waived and justification as to why the specific item is required;

(ii) The proposed solicitation number, NAICS code, dollar amount of the procurement, and a brief statement of the procurement history;

(iii) A determination by the contracting officer that no small business manufacturer or processor reasonably can be expected to offer a product or products meeting the specifications (including period of performance) required by a particular solicitation. Include a narrative describing market research and supporting documentation; and

(iv) For contracts or orders expected to exceed $500,000, a copy of the Statement of Work.

(2) Requests should be addressed to the Director, Office of Government Contracting, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416.

(3) SBA will examine the contracting officer's determination and any other information it deems necessary to make an informed decision on the individual waiver request. If SBA's research verifies that no small business manufacturers or processors exist for the item, the Director, Office of Government Contracting will grant an individual, one-time waiver. If a small business manufacturer or processor is found for the product in question, the Associate Administrator will deny the request. Either decision represents a final decision by SBA.
