
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 123 - DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Home Disaster Loans
##### ยง 123.105 How much can I borrow with a home disaster loan and what limits apply on use of funds and repayment terms?

(a) There are limits on how much money you can borrow for particular purposes:

(1) $40,000 for repair or replacement of household and personal effects;

(2) $200,000 for repair or replacement of a primary residence (including upgrading in order to meet minimum standards of safety and decency or current building code requirements). Repair or replacement of landscaping and/or recreational facilities cannot exceed $5,000;

(3) $200,000 for eligible refinancing purposes;

(4) 20 percent of the verified loss (not including refinancing or malfeasance), before deduction of compensation from other sources, up to a maximum of $200,000 for post-disaster mitigation (see ยง 123.107); and

(5) $200,000 for eligible malfeasance, pursuant to ยง 123.18.

(b) You may not use loan proceeds to repay any debts on personal property, secured or unsecured, unless you incurred those debts as a direct result of the disaster.

(c) SBA determines the loan maturity and repayment terms based on your needs and your ability to pay. Generally, you will pay equal monthly installments of principal and interest, beginning five months from the date of the loan, as shown on the Note securing the loan. SBA will consider other payment terms if you have seasonal or fluctuating income, and SBA may allow installment payments of varying amounts over the first two years of the loan. The maximum maturity for a home disaster loan is 30 years. There is no penalty for prepayment of home disaster loans.
