
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 123 - DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Physical Disaster Business Loans
##### ยง 123.201 When am I not eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan?

(a) You are not eligible for a physical disaster business loan if your business is an agricultural enterprise or if you (or any principal of the business) fit into any of the categories in ยง 123.101. Agricultural enterprise means a business primarily engaged in the production of food and fiber, ranching and raising of livestock, aquaculture and all other farming and agriculture-related industries.

(b) Sometimes a damaged business entity (whether in the form of a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or sole proprietorship) is engaged in both agricultural enterprise and a non-agricultural business venture. If the agricultural enterprise part of your business entity has suffered a physical disaster, that enterprise is not eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance. If the non-agricultural business venture of your entity has suffered physical disaster damage, that part of your business operation would be eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance. If both the agricultural enterprise part and the non-agricultural business venture have incurred physical disaster damage, only the non-agricultural business venture of your business entity would be eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance.

(c) If your business is going to relocate voluntarily outside the business area in which the disaster occurred, you are not eligible for a physical disaster business loan. If, however, the relocation is due to uncontrollable or compelling circumstances, SBA will consider the relocation to be involuntary and eligible for a loan. Such circumstances may include, but are not limited to:

(1) The elimination or substantial decrease in the market for your products or services, as a consequence of the disaster;

(2) A change in the demographics of your business area within 18 months prior to the disaster, or as a result of the disaster, which makes it uneconomical to continue operations in your business area;

(3) A substantial change in your cost of doing business, as a result of the disaster, which makes the continuation of your business in the business area not economically viable;

(4) Location of your business in a hazardous area such as a special flood hazard area or an earthquake-prone area;

(5) A change in the public infrastructure in your business area which occurred within 18 months or as a result of the disaster that would result in substantially increased expenses for your business in the business area;

(6) Your implementation of decisions adopted and at least partially implemented within 18 months prior to the disaster to move your business out of the business area; and

(7) Other factors which undermine the economic viability of your business area.

(d) You are not eligible if your business is engaged in any illegal activity.

(e) You are not eligible if you are a government owned entity (except for a business owned or controlled by a Native American tribe).
