
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 123 - DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Immediate Disaster Assistance Program
##### ยง 123.703 What are the terms of an IDAP loan?
###### Repayment,Initial Period.

(d)-(1)During the Initial Period, an IDAP Borrower will pay interest only on the disbursed principal balance of the IDAP loan. If SBA approves the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application, SBA will require that the IDAP loan be repaid first from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan. If the IDAP Borrower receives Other Recoveries during the Initial Period, the IDAP Borrower must, in accordance with ยง 123.703(h), remit the Other Recoveries to the IDAP Lender, and the IDAP Lender will apply the Other Recoveries to the IDAP loan. If the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application is declined or if the amount of the approved Disaster Loan is insufficient to repay the IDAP loan in full, the remaining balance of the IDAP loan will be repaid during the Term Period as described in paragraph (2). The Initial Period ends upon (i) full repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan; (ii) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan Application; or (iii) receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; provided that if the IDAP loan has not been fully disbursed at such time, the Initial Period shall not end until the IDAP loan is fully disbursed. If an IDAP Borrower withdraws an application for a Disaster Loan, fails to close on an approved Disaster Loan or if the approved Disaster Loan is cancelled, the IDAP loan is immediately due and payable by the IDAP Borrower.
