
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 123 - DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Immediate Disaster Assistance Program
##### § 123.706 What are the requirements for IDAP Lenders?
###### IDAP Lenders.

(a)An IDAP Lender must be a 7(a) Lender (as defined in § 120.10). Notwithstanding the provisions of § 120.470(a), a Small Business Lending Company (SBLC) that is a 7(a) Lender may make IDAP loans. An IDAP Lender must sign a supplemental Loan Guarantee Agreement for the IDAP loan program. An IDAP Lender must comply and maintain familiarity with the IDAP Loan Program Requirements, as such requirements are revised from time to time. IDAP Loan Program Requirements in effect at the time that an IDAP Lender takes an action in connection with a particular IDAP loan govern that specific action. With respect to their activities in the IDAP loan program, IDAP Lenders are subject to the requirements of §§ 120.140 (What ethical requirements apply to participants?), 120.197 (Notifying SBA's Office of Inspector General of suspected fraud), 120.400 (Loan Guarantee Agreements), 120.410 (Requirements for all participating Lenders), 120.411 (Preferences), 120.412 (Other services Lenders may provide Borrowers), and 120.413 (Advertisement of relationship with SBA) of this chapter. An IDAP Lender and its contractor(s) are independent contractors that are responsible for their own actions with respect to an IDAP loan. SBA has no responsibility or liability for any claim by an IDAP Borrower, guarantor or other party alleging injury as a result of any allegedly wrongful action taken by an IDAP Lender or an employee, agent or contractor of an IDAP Lender.
