
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 124 - 8(a) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT/SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS DETERMINATIONS
#### Subpart A - 8(a) Business Development
##### Provisions of General Applicability
###### ยง 124.4 What restrictions apply to fees for applicant and Participant representatives?
####### ยง 124.304 What are the procedures for early graduation and termination?
######## Effect or early graduation or termination.

(f)(1) After the effective date of early graduation or termination, a Participant is no longer eligible to receive any 8(a) BD program assistance. However, such concern is obligated to complete previously awarded 8(a) contracts, including any priced options which may be exercised.

(2) When SBA early graduates or terminates a firm from the 8(a) BD program, the firm will generally not qualify as an SDB for future procurement actions. If the firm believes that it does qualify as an SDB and seeks to certify itself as an SDB, as part of its SDB certification the firm must identify:

(i) That it has been early graduated or terminated;

(ii) The statutory or regulatory authority that qualifies the firm for SDB status; and

(iii) Where applicable, the circumstances that have changed since the early graduation or termination or that do not prevent it from qualifying as an SDB.

(3) Where a concern certifies that it qualifies as an SDB pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of the section, the procuring activity contracting officer may protest the SDB status of the firm to SBA pursuant to ยง 124.1010 where questions regarding the firm's SDB status remain.
