
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 124 - 8(a) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT/SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS DETERMINATIONS
#### Subpart A - 8(a) Business Development
##### Contractual Assistance
###### ยง 124.503 How does SBA accept a procurement for award through the 8(a) BD program?
####### Basic Ordering Agreements (BOAs) and Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs).,See

(h)Neither a Basic Ordering Agreement (BOA) nor a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) is a contract under the FAR.48 CFR 13.303 and 48 CFR 16.703(a). Each order to be issued under a BOA or BPA is an individual contract. As such, the procuring activity must offer, and SBA must accept, each order under a BOA or BPA in addition to offering and accepting the BOA or BPA itself.

(1) SBA will not accept for award on a sole source basis any task order under a BOA or BPA that would cause the total dollar amount of task orders issued to exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in ยง 124.506(a).

(2) Where a procuring activity believes that task orders to be issued under a proposed BOA or BPA will exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in ยง 124.506(a), the procuring activity must offer the requirement to the program to be competed among eligible Participants.

(3) Once a concern's program term expires, the concern otherwise exits the 8(a) BD program, or becomes other than small for the NAICS code assigned under the BOA or BPA, new orders will not be accepted for the concern.

(4) A procuring agency may offer, and SBA may accept, an order issued under a BOA or BPA to be awarded through the 8(a) BD program where the BOA or BPA itself was not accepted for the 8(a) BD program, but rather was awarded on an unrestricted basis.
