
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 101 - ADMINISTRATION
#### Subpart D - Intergovernmental Partnership
##### § 101.404 How does the Administrator receive comments?

(a) The Administrator follows the procedures of § 101.405 if-

(1) A state office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a state process and all Federal agencies; and

(2) That office or official transmits a state process recommendation for a program selected under § 101.402(a).

(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from state, area-wide, regional, or local officials and entities where there is no state process recommendation.

(2) If a state process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from state, area-wide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.

(c) If a state has not established a process, or is unable to submit a state process recommendation, state, area-wide, regional, and local officials and entities may submit comments to SBA.

(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a state process, state, area-wide, regional, and local officials and entities may submit comments to SBA. In addition, if a state process recommendation for a non-selected program or activity is transmitted to SBA by the single point of contact, the Administrator follows the procedures of § 101.405.

(e) The Administrator considers comments which do not constitute a state process recommendation submitted under this subpart and for which the Administrator is not required to apply the procedures of § 101.405 when such comments are provided by a single point of contact directly to SBA by a commenting party.
