
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.2 What are SBA's and the procuring agency's responsibilities when providing contracting assistance to small businesses?
##### Procuring Agency Small Business Specialist (SBS) Responsibilities.

(4)

(i) As early in the acquisition planning process as practicable-but no later than 30 days before the issuance of a solicitation, or prior to placing an order without a solicitation-the procuring activity must coordinate with the procuring activity's SBS when the acquisition strategy contemplates an acquisition meeting the dollar amounts set forth for substantial bundling. If the acquisition strategy contemplates Multiple Award Contracts or orders under the GSA Multiple Award Schedule Program or a task or delivery order contract awarded by another agency, these thresholds apply to the cumulative estimated value of the Multiple Award Contracts or orders, including options. The procuring activity is not required to coordinate with its SBS if the contract or order is entirely set-aside for small business concerns, or small businesses under one of SBA's small business programs, as authorized under the Small Business Act.

(ii) The SBS must notify the agency OSDBU or OSBP if the agency's acquisition strategy or plan includes bundled or consolidated requirements that the agency has not identified as bundled, or includes unnecessary or unjustified bundling of requirements. If the strategy involves substantial bundling, the SBS must assist in identifying alternative strategies that would reduce or minimize the scope of the bundling.

(iii) The SBS must coordinate with the procuring activity and PCR on all required determinations and findings for bundling and/or consolidation, and acquisition planning and strategy documentation.
