
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.6 What are the prime contractor's limitations on subcontracting?
##### General.

(a)In order to be awarded a full or partial small business set-aside contract with a value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101), an 8(a) contract, an SDVOSB contract, a VOSB contract, a HUBZone contract, or a WOSB or EDWOSB contract pursuant to part 127 of this chapter, a small business concern must agree that:

(1) In the case of a contract for services (except construction), it will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 50% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Other direct costs may be excluded to the extent they are not the principal purpose of the acquisition and small business concerns do not provide the service, such as airline travel, work performed by a transportation or disposal entity under a contract assigned the environmental remediation NAICS code (562910), cloud computing services, or mass media purchases. In addition, work performed overseas on awards made pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or work required to be performed by a local contractor, is excluded.

(2)(i) In the case of a contract for supplies or products (other than from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), it will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 50% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.

(ii) In the case of a contract for supplies from a nonmanufacturer, it will supply the product of a domestic small business manufacturer or processor, unless a waiver as described in ยง 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter is granted.

(A) For a multiple item procurement where a waiver as described in ยง 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter has not been granted for one or more items, more than 50% of the value of the products to be supplied by the nonmanufacturer must be the products of one or more domestic small business manufacturers or processors.

(B) For a multiple item procurement where a waiver as described in ยง 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter is granted for one or more items, compliance with the limitation on subcontracting requirement will be determined by combining the value of the items supplied by domestic small business manufacturers or processors with the value of the items subject to a waiver. As such, as long as the value of the items to be supplied by domestic small business manufacturers or processors plus the value of the items to be supplied that are subject to a waiver account for at least 50% of the value of the contract, the limitations on subcontracting requirement is met.

(C) For a multiple item procurement, the same small business concern may act as both a manufacturer and a nonmanufacturer.

(3) In the case of a contract for general construction, it will not pay more than 85% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 85% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.

(4) In the case of a contract for special trade contractors, no more than 75% of the amount paid by the government to the prime may be paid to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 75% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.
