
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.9 What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program?
##### Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s.

(c)(1) In order to initially qualify as a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm, a concern must qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code or identify that it is seeking business development assistance with respect to a secondary NAICS code and qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to that NAICS code.

(i) A firm may self-certify that it qualifies as small for its primary or identified secondary NAICS code.

(ii) Where a small business concern seeks to qualify as a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; in a secondary NAICS code, the concern must demonstrate how the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship will help it further develop or expand its current capabilities in that secondary NAICS code. SBA will not approve a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship in a secondary NAICS code in which the small business concern has no prior experience. SBA may approve a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship where the small business concern can demonstrate that it has performed work in one or more similar NAICS codes or where the NAICS code in which the small business concern seeks a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship is a logical business progression to work previously performed by the concern.

(2) A prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm may generally have only one mentor at a time. SBA may approve a second mentor for a particular prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm where the second relationship will not compete or otherwise conflict with the first mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, and:

(i) The second relationship pertains to an unrelated NAICS code; or

(ii) The prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm is seeking to acquire a specific expertise that the first mentor does not possess.

(3) SBA may authorize a small business to be both a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and a mentor at the same time where the small business can demonstrate that the second relationship will not compete or otherwise conflict with the first mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship.
