
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### § 125.9 What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program?
##### Benefits.,i.e.,,e.g.,

(d)(1) A prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and mentor may joint venture as a small business for any government prime contract, subcontract or sale, provided the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; qualifies as small for the procurement or sale. Such a joint venture may seek any type of small business contract (small business set-aside, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO, or WOSB) for which the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm qualifies (a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm that qualifies as a WOSB could seek a WOSB set-aside as a joint venture with its SBA-approved mentor). Similarly, a joint venture between a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and mentor may seek a subcontract as a HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, SDVO small business, or WOSB provided the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; individually qualifies as such.

(i) SBA must approve the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement before the two firms may submit an offer as a joint venture on a particular government prime contract or subcontract in order for the joint venture to receive the exclusion from affiliation.

(ii) In order to receive the exclusion from affiliation, the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in § 125.8(b)(2), (c), and (d).

(iii) A joint venture between a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and its mentor will qualify as a small business for any procurement for which the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; individually qualifies as small. Once a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm no longer qualifies as a small business for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code under which SBA approved its mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, any joint venture between the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and its mentor will no longer be able to seek additional contracts or subcontracts as a small business for any NAICS code having the same or lower size standard. A joint venture between a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and its mentor could seek additional contract opportunities in NAICS codes having a size standard for which the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; continues to qualify as small. A change in the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;'s size status does not generally affect contracts previously awarded to a joint venture between the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and its mentor.

(A) Except for contracts with durations of more than five years (including options), a contract awarded to a joint venture between a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and a mentor as a small business continues to qualify as an award to small business for the life of that contract and the joint venture remains obligated to continue performance on that contract.

(B) For contracts with durations of more than five years (including options), where size re-certification is required under § 121.404(g)(3) of this chapter no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter, once the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; no longer qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, the joint venture will not be able re-certify itself to be a small business for that contract. The rules set forth in § 121.404(g)(3) of this chapter apply in such circumstances.

(2) In order to raise capital, the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm may agree to sell or otherwise convey to the mentor an equity interest of up to 40% in the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm.

(3) Notwithstanding the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm may qualify for other assistance as a small business, including SBA financial assistance.

(4) No determination of affiliation or control may be found between a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm and its mentor based solely on the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement or any assistance provided pursuant to the agreement. However, affiliation may be found for other reasons set forth in § 121.103 of this chapter.

(5) Where appropriate, procuring activities may provide incentives in the contract evaluation process to a firm that will provide significant subcontracting work to its SBA-approved prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm.

(6) A mentor that provides a subcontract to its prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; that is a covered territory business, or that has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, may:

(i) receive positive consideration for the mentor's past performance evaluation, and (ii) apply costs incurred for providing training to such protege toward the subcontracting goals contained in the subcontracting plan of the mentor.

(ii) [Reserved]
