
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.9 What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program?
##### Written agreement.,e.g.,

(e)(1) The mentor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms must enter a written agreement setting forth an assessment of the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;'s needs and providing a detailed description and timeline for the delivery of the assistance the mentor commits to provide to address those needs (management and or technical assistance; loans and/or equity investments; bonding; use of equipment; export assistance; assistance as a subcontractor under prime contracts being performed by the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;; cooperation on joint venture projects; or subcontracts under prime contracts being performed by the mentor). The mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement must:

(i) Specifically identify the business development assistance to be provided and address how the assistance will help the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; enhance its growth and/or foster or acquire needed capabilities;

(ii) Establish a single point of contact in the mentor concern who is responsible for managing and implementing the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement; and

(iii) Provide that the mentor will provide such assistance to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm for at least one year.

(2) A firm seeking SBA's approval to be a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must identify any other mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship it has through another federal agency or SBA and provide a copy of each such mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement to SBA.

(i) The small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement must identify how the assistance to be provided by the proposed mentor is different from assistance provided to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; through another mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, either with the same or a different mentor.

(ii) A firm seeking SBA's approval to be a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; may terminate a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship it has through another agency and use any not yet provided assistance identified in the other mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement as part of the assistance that will be provided through the small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship. Any assistance that has already been provided through another mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship cannot be identified as assistance that will be provided through the small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship.

(3) The written agreement must be approved by the Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD) or his/her designee. The agreement will not be approved if SBA determines that the assistance to be provided is not sufficient to promote any real developmental gains to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;, or if SBA determines that the agreement is merely a vehicle to enable the mentor to receive small business contracts.

(4) The agreement must provide that either the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; or the mentor may terminate the agreement with 30 days advance notice to the other party to the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship and to SBA.
