
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.9 What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program?
##### e.g.,

(5) The term of a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement may not exceed six years. If an initial mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement is for less than six years, it may be extended by mutual agreement prior to the expiration date for an additional amount of time that would total no more than six years from its inception (if the initial mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement was for two years, it could be extended for an additional four years by consent of the two parties; if the initial mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement was for three years, it could be extended for an additional three years by consent of the two parties). Unless rescinded in writing as a result of an SBA review, the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship will automatically renew without additional written notice of continuation or extension to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm.

(6) A prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; may generally have a total of two mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreements with different mentors.

(i) Each mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement may last for no more than six years, as set forth in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(ii) If a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement is terminated within 18 months from the date SBA approved the agreement, that mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship will generally not count as one of the two mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationships that a small business may enter as a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;. However, where a specific small business prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; appears to enter into many short-term mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationships as a means of extending its program eligibility as a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;, SBA may determine that the business concern has exhausted its participation in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program and not approve an additional mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship.

(iii) If during the evaluation of the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship pursuant to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section SBA determines that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided was not satisfactory, SBA may allow the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; to substitute another mentor for the time remaining in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement without counting against the two-mentor limit.

(7) SBA must approve all changes to a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement in advance, and any changes made to the agreement must be provided in writing. If the parties to the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship change the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement without prior approval by SBA, SBA shall terminate the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship and may also propose suspension or debarment of one or both of the firms pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section where appropriate.

(8) If control of the mentor changes (through a stock sale or otherwise), the previously approved mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship may continue provided that, after the change in control, the mentor expresses in writing to SBA that it acknowledges the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;agreement and certifies that it will continue to abide by its terms.

(9) SBA may terminate the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement at any time if it determines that the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; is not benefiting from the relationship or that the parties are not complying with any term or condition of the mentor prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement. In the event SBA terminates the relationship, the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; joint venture is obligated to complete any previously awarded contracts unless the procuring agency issues a stop work order.
