
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 125 - GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
#### ยง 125.9 What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program?
##### Evaluating the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship.

(g)SBA will review the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship annually. SBA will ask the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; for its assessment of how the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship is working, whether or not the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; received the agreed upon business development assistance, and whether the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; would recommend the mentor to be a mentor for another small business in the future. At any point in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship where a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; believes that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided did not meet its expectations, the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; can ask SBA to intervene on its behalf with the mentor.

(1) Within 30 days of the anniversary of SBA's approval of the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement, the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must report to SBA for the preceding year:

(i) All technical and/or management assistance provided by the mentor to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;;

(ii) All loans to and/or equity investments made by the mentor in the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;;

(iii) All subcontracts awarded to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; by the mentor and all subcontracts awarded to the mentor by the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;, and the value of each subcontract;

(iv) All federal contracts awarded to the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship as a joint venture (designating each as a small business set-aside, small business reserve, or unrestricted procurement), the value of each contract, and the percentage of the contract performed and the percentage of revenue accruing to each party to the joint venture; and

(v) A narrative describing the success such assistance has had in addressing the developmental needs of the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and addressing any problems encountered.

(2) The prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must report the mentoring services it receives by category and hours.

(3) The prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must annually certify to SBA whether there has been any change in the terms of the agreement.

(4) At any point in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship where a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; believes that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided did not meet its expectations, the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; can ask SBA to intervene on its behalf with the mentor.

(5) SBA may decide not to approve continuation of a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement where:

(i) SBA finds that the mentor has not provided the assistance set forth in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement;

(ii) SBA finds that the assistance provided by the mentor has not resulted in any material benefits or developmental gains to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;; or

(iii) A prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; does not provide information relating to the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, as set forth in paragraph (g).
