
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart A - Provisions of General Applicability
##### ยง 126.103 What definitions are important in the HUBZone program?
###### Employee

means all individuals employed on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, so long as that individual works a minimum of 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, which is either the date the concern submits its HUBZone application to SBA or the date of recertification. SBA will review a concern's payroll records for the most recently completed pay periods that account for the four-week period immediately prior to the date of application or date of recertification in order to determine which individuals meet this definition. To determine if an individual is an employee, SBA reviews the totality of circumstances, including criteria used by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for Federal income tax purposes and the factors set forth in SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1 (51 FR 6099, February 20, 1986).

(1) In general, the following are considered employees:

(i) Individuals obtained from a temporary employee agency, leasing concern, or through a union agreement, or co-employed pursuant to a professional employer organization agreement;

(ii) An individual who has an ownership interest in the concern and who works for the concern a minimum of 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, whether or not the individual receives compensation;

(iii) The sole owner of a concern who works less than 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, but who has not hired another individual to direct the actions of the concern's employees;

(iv) Individuals who receive in-kind compensation commensurate with work performed. Such compensation must provide a demonstrable financial value to the individual and must be compliant with all relevant federal and state laws.

(2) In general, the following are not considered employees:

(i) Individuals who are not owners and receive no compensation (including no in-kind compensation) for work performed;

(ii) Individuals who receive deferred compensation for work performed;

(iii) Independent contractors that receive payment via IRS Form 1099 and are not considered employees under SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1; and

(iv) Subcontractors.
