
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Requirements To Be a Certified HUBZone Small Business Concern
##### ยง 126.204 May a HUBZone small business concern have affiliates?

(a) A HUBZone small business concern may have affiliates, provided that the aggregate size of the concern together with all of its affiliates is small as defined in part 121 of this title, except as otherwise provided for small agricultural cooperatives in ยง 126.103.

(b) Employees of affiliates are not automatically considered employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern solely on the basis of affiliation.

(c) The employees of an affiliate may be counted as employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern for purposes of determining compliance with the HUBZone program's principal office and 35% residency requirements in certain circumstances. In determining whether individuals should be counted as employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern, SBA will consider all information, including criteria used by the IRS for Federal income tax purposes and those set forth in SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1. Employees of the concern's affiliate will not be counted as the concern's employees if there is a clear line of fracture between the concern and its affiliate.

(1) SBA generally will find that there is a clear line of fracture where the concern demonstrates that it does not share employees, facilities, or equipment with the affiliate; has different customers or lines of business (or is distinctly segregated geographically); and does not receive significant contracts or financial assistance from the affiliate.

(2) The use of common administrative services between parent and/or sister concerns by itself will not result in an affiliate's employees being counted as employees of the HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern.

(3) Minimal business activity between the concern and its affiliate will not result in an affiliate's employees being counted as employees of the HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern.
