
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Maintaining HUBZone Status
##### ยง 126.500 How does a concern maintain HUBZone certification?
###### see

(a) Any concern seeking to remain a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) must annually represent to SBA that it continues to meet all HUBZone eligibility criteria (ยง 126.200).

(1) If at the time of its recertification the certified HUBZone small business concern is not currently performing a HUBZone contract, its representation means that at least 35% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and the principal office of the concern continues to be located in a HUBZone.

(2) If at the time of its recertification the certified HUBZone small business concern is currently performing a HUBZone contract, its representation means that at least 20% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and the principal office of the concern continues to be located in a HUBZone.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, unless SBA has reason to question the concern's representation of its continued eligibility, SBA will accept the representation without requiring the certified HUBZone small business concern to submit any supporting information or documentation.

(4) The concern's recertification must be submitted within 30 days of the anniversary date of its original HUBZone certification. The date of HUBZone certification is the date specified in the concern's certification letter. If the business fails to recertify, SBA may propose the concern for decertification pursuant to ยง 126.503.

(b) SBA will conduct a program examination of each certified HUBZone small business concern pursuant to ยง 126.403 at least once every three years to ensure continued program eligibility. Specifically, SBA will conduct a program examination as part of the recertification process three years after the concern's initial HUBZone certification or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.
