
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Maintaining HUBZone Status
##### ยง 126.500 How does a concern maintain HUBZone certification?
###### Example:

(1)Concern A is certified by SBA to be eligible for the HUBZone program on September 27, 2020. During that year, Concern A does not receive a HUBZone contract. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2021 and September 26, 2021. Concern A must represent that at least 35% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and that its principal office continues to be located in a HUBZone. Concern A will continue to be a certified HUBZone small business concern that is eligible to receive HUBZone contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through September 26, 2022. On June 28, 2022, Concern A is awarded a HUBZone contract. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2022 and September 26, 2022. Because Concern A is performing a HUBZone contract, Concern A must represent that at least 20% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and that its principal office continues to be located in a HUBZone. Concern A will continue to be a certified HUBZone small business concern that is eligible to receive HUBZone contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through September 26, 2023. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2023 and September 26, 2023. Because three years have elapsed since its application and original certification, SBA will conduct a program examination of Concern A at that time. In addition to its representation that it continues to be eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern, Concern A must provide additional information as requested by SBA to demonstrate that it continues to meet all the eligibility requirements of the HUBZone Program.

(2) [Reserved]
