
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Contracting With Certified HUBZone Small Business Concerns
##### ยง 126.602 Must a certified HUBZone small business concern maintain the employee residency percentage during contract performance?
###### see

(a) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has not received a HUBZone contract must have at least 35% of its employees residing within a HUBZone at the time of certification and annual recertification. Such a concern need not meet the 35% HUBZone residency requirement at all times while certified in the program. A certified HUBZone small business concern that has received a HUBZone contract must "attempt to maintain" (ยง 126.103) having 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of any HUBZone contract awarded to the concern on the basis of its HUBZone status. Such a concern must have at least 20% of its employees residing within a HUBZone at the time of its annual recertification.

(b) For orders under indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts, including orders under multiple award contracts, a certified HUBZone small business concern must "attempt to maintain" the HUBZone residency requirement during the performance of each order that is set aside for HUBZone small business concerns.

(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern eligible for the program pursuant to ยง 126.200(c)(2)(ii) must have at least 35% of its employees engaged in performing a HUBZone contract residing within any Indian reservation governed by one or more of the concern's Indian Tribal Government owners, or residing within any HUBZone adjoining any such Indian reservation.

(d) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has less than 20% of its total employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of a HUBZone contract has failed to attempt to maintain the HUBZone residency requirement. Such failure will result in proposed decertification pursuant to ยง 126.503.
