
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 126 - HUBZONE PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Contracting With Certified HUBZone Small Business Concerns
##### ยง 126.613 How does a price evaluation preference affect the bid of a certified HUBZone small business concern in full and open competition?
###### i.e.,not more than

There is an IFB for 100,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 1 (from a large business) is $1/pound for 100,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 2 (from a HUBZone small business concern) is $1.05/pound for 20,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 3 (from a HUBZone small business concern) is $1.04/pound for 20,000 pounds. Bid 3 receives a 10% price evaluation adjustment for 20,000 pounds, since 20,000 is less than 25% of 100,000 pounds. With the 10% price evaluation adjustment, Bid 1 changes from $20,000 for the first 20,000 pounds to $22,000. Bid 3's price of $20,800 ($1.04 x 20,000) is now lower than any other bid for 20,000 pounds. Thus, Bid 3 will be accepted for the full 20,000 pounds. Bid 2 receives a 10% price evaluation adjustment for that amount of its bid when added to the volume in Bid 3 that does not exceed 25% of the total volume being procured. Since 25,000 pounds is 25% of the total volume of wheat under the IFB, and Bid 3 totaled 20,000 pounds, a 10% price evaluation adjustment will be applied to the first 5,000 pounds of Bid 2. With the price evaluation adjustment, the price for Bid 1, as measured against Bid 2, for 5,000 pounds changes from $5,000 to $5,500. Bid 2's price of $5,250 ($1.05 x 5,000) is lower than Bid 1 for 5,000 pounds. Bid 2 will then receive a 5% price evaluation adjustment for the remaining 15,000 pounds, since the total volume of Bids 3 and 2 receiving an adjustment does not exceed 40% of the total volume of wheat under the IFB (, 40,000 pounds). With the 5% price evaluation adjustment, Bid 1's price for the next 15,000 pounds changes from $15,000 to $15,750. Bid 2's price for that 15,000 pounds is also $15, 750 ($1.05 x 15,000). Because the evaluation price for Bid 2 is10% higher than the price offered by Bid 1, Bid 2's price is deemed to be lower than the price offered by Bid 1. Since the evaluation price for both the first 5,000 pounds (receiving a 10% price evaluation adjustment) and the remaining 15,000 pounds (receiving a 5% price evaluation adjustment) is less than Bid 1, Bid 2 will be accepted for the full 20,000 pounds.

(ii) [Reserved]

(c) For purchases by the Secretary of Agriculture of agricultural commodities for export operations through international food aid programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, the price evaluation preference shall be 5% on the first portion of a contract to be awarded that is not greater than 20% of the total volume being procured for each commodity in a single IFB.

(d) A contract awarded to a certified HUBZone small business concern under a preference described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be counted toward the fulfillment of any requirement partially set aside for competition restricted to small business concerns.
