
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Certification of EDWOSB or WOSB Status
##### Certification
###### ยง 127.304 How is an application for certification processed?

(a) The SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) or designee is authorized to approve or decline applications for certification. SBA must receive all required information and supporting documents before it will begin processing a concern's application. SBA will not process incomplete applications. SBA will advise each applicant within 15 calendar days after the receipt of an application whether the application is complete and suitable for evaluation and, if not, what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application. SBA will make its determination within ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of a complete package, whenever practicable.

(b) SBA may request additional information or clarification of information contained in an application or document submission at any time.

(c) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the missing information would adversely affect the business concern's eligibility or demonstrate a lack of eligibility in the area or areas to which the information relates.

(d) The applicant must be eligible as of the date it submitted its application and up until the time the D/GC issues a decision. The decision will be based on the facts contained in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification, and any changed circumstances since the date of application.

(e) Any changed circumstances occurring after an applicant has submitted an application will be considered and may constitute grounds for decline. After submitting the application and signed representation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility. The D/GC may propose decertification for any EDWOSB or WOSB that fails to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.
