
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Certification of EDWOSB or WOSB Status
##### Requirements for Third-Party Certifiers
###### ยง 127.355 How will SBA ensure that approved third-party certifiers are meeting the requirements?

(a) SBA will require third-party certifiers to submit monthly reports to SBA. These reports will contain information including the number of applications received, number of applications approved and denied, and other information that SBA determines may be helpful for ensuring that third-party certifiers are meeting their obligations or information or data that may be useful for improving the program.

(b) SBA will conduct periodic compliance reviews of third-party certifiers and their underlying certification determinations to ensure that they are properly applying SBA's WOSB/EDWOSB requirements and certifying concerns in accordance with those requirements.

(1) SBA will conduct a full compliance review on every third-party certifier at least once every three years.

(2) At the conclusion of each compliance review, SBA will provide the third-party certifier with a written report detailing SBA's findings with regard to the third-party certifier's compliance with SBA's requirements. The report will include recommendations for possible improvements, and detailed explanations for any deficiencies identified by SBA.

(c) If SBA determines that a third-party certifier is not properly applying SBA's eligibility requirements, SBA may revoke the approval of that third-party certifier.
