
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart D - Eligibility Examinations
##### ยง 127.400 How does a concern maintain its WOSB or EDWOSB certification?

(a) Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must annually represent to SBA that it continues to meet all WOSB/EDWOSB eligibility criteria.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, unless SBA has reason to question the concern's representation of its continued eligibility, SBA will accept the representation without requiring the certified WOSB or EDWOSB to submit any supporting information or documentation.

(2) The concern's recertification must be submitted within 30 days of the anniversary date of its original certification. The date of certification is the date specified in the concern's certification letter. If the concern fails to recertify, SBA may propose the concern for decertification pursuant to ยง 127.405.

(b) Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must undergo a program examination and recertify its continued eligibility to SBA every three years.

(1) SBA or a third-party certifier will conduct a program examination three years after the concern's initial WOSB or EDWOSB certification (whether by SBA or a third-party certifier) or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.

(2) The concern must either request a program examination from SBA or notify SBA that it has requested a program examination by a third-party certifier no later than 30 days prior to its certification anniversary. Failure to do so will result in the concern being decertified.
