
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Federal Contract Assistance
##### ยง 127.504 What requirements must an EDWOSB or WOSB meet to be eligible for an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement?
###### Recertification.

(h)(1) Where a contract being performed by an EDWOSB or WOSB is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) within 30 days of the novation approval. If the concern cannot recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(2) Where an EDWOSB or WOSB concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract). If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(3) For purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option. If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(4) A business concern that did not certify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements at that time. The agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(5) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, nonmanufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract.

(6) A concern's status will be determined at the time of a response to a solicitation for an Agreement and each order issued pursuant to the Agreement.
