
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Protests
##### ยง 127.603 What are the requirements for filing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
###### Timeliness.

(c)(1) For negotiated acquisitions, a protest from an interested party must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror or notification of award. Except for an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contact, for an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement that is set-aside for EDWOSB or WOSB small business under a Multiple Award Contract that is not itself set aside for EDWOSB or WOSB small business or have a reserve for EDWOSB or WOSB small business (or any EDWOSB or WOSB order where the contracting officer has requested recertification of such status), an interested party must submit its protest challenging the EDWOSB or WOSB status of a concern for the order or Blanket Purchase Agreement by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror.

(2) For sealed bid acquisitions, a protest from an interested party must be received by close of business on the fifth business day after bid opening.

(3) Any protest received after the time limit is untimely, unless it is from SBA or the contracting officer. A contracting officer or SBA may file an EDWOSB or WOSB protest at any time after bid opening or notification of intended awardee, whichever applies.

(4) Any protest received prior to bid opening or notification of intended awardee, whichever applies, is premature.

(5) A timely filed protest applies to the procurement in question even if filed after award.
