
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 127 - WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Protests
##### ยง 127.604 How will SBA process an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
###### Effect of determination.

(f)SBA's determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned by SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) on appeal pursuant to ยง 127.605.

(1) A contracting officer may award the contract to a protested concern after the D/GC either has determined that the protested concern is an eligible WOSB or EDWOSB or has dismissed all protests against it. If OHA subsequently overturns the D/GC's determination or dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to the procurement in question.

(2) A contracting officer shall not award the contract to a protested concern that the D/GC has determined is not an EDWOSB or WOSB for the procurement in question.

(i) If a contracting officer receives such a determination after contract award, and no OHA appeal has been filed, the contracting officer shall terminate the award.

(ii) If a timely OHA appeal has been filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered.

(iii) If OHA affirms the D/GC's determination finding that the protested concern is ineligible, the contracting officer shall either terminate the contract, not exercise the next option or not award further task or delivery orders.

(3) The contracting officer must update the Federal Procurement Data System and other procurement reporting databases to reflect the final agency decision (the D/GC's decision if no appeal is filed or OHA's decision).

(4) A concern that has been found to be ineligible will be decertified from the program and may not submit an offer as a WOSB or EDWOSB on another procurement until it is recertified. A concern may be recertified by reapplying to the program pursuant to ยง 127.305.
