
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart C - Qualifying for an SBIC License
##### Organizing an SBIC
###### § 107.160 Special rules for Licensees formed as limited partnerships.
####### Entity General Partner of Licensee.

(b)A general partner which is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership (an "Entity General Partner") shall be organized under state law solely for the purpose of serving as the general partner of one or more Licensees.

(1) SBA must approve any person who will serve as an officer, director, manager, or general partner of the Entity General Partner. This provision must be stated in an Entity General Partner's Certificate of Incorporation, member agreement, Limited Partnership Agreement or other similar governing instrument which must, in each case, accompany the license application.

(2) An Entity General Partner is subject to the same examination and reporting requirements as a Licensee under section 310(b) of the Act. The restrictions and obligations imposed upon a Licensee by §§ 107.1800 through 107.1820, and 107.30, 107.410 through 107.450, 107.470, 107.475, 107.500, 107.510, 107.585, 107.600, 107.680, 107.690 through 107.692, 107.865, and 107.1910 apply also to an Entity General Partner of a Licensee.

(3) The general partner(s) of your Entity General Partner(s) will be considered your general partner.

(4) If your Entity General Partner is a limited partnership, its limited partners may be considered your Control Person(s) if they meet the definition for Control Person in § 107.50.

(5) If your Entity General Partner is a limited partnership, it is subject to paragraph (a) of this section.
