
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 128 - VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Certification of VOSB or SDVOSB Status
##### ยง 128.302 How does SBA process applications for certification?
###### e.g.,

(e) The Applicant must inform SBA of any changed circumstances that occur during its application review and that could affect its eligibility for the program (change in size status, ownership, or control, filing of bankruptcy, or calling to active duty) and may withdraw its application at that time. Changed circumstances will be considered by SBA in determining an Applicant's eligibility and may constitute grounds for denial of the application. The D/GC may propose decertification for any VOSB or SDVOSB that failed to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.

(f) The decision of the D/GC to approve or deny an application will be in writing. A decision to deny certification status will state the specific reason(s) for denial and will inform the Applicant of any appeal rights.

(g) If the D/GC approves the application, the period of program eligibility will be specified in the concern's certification letter.

(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern. It is the responsibility of the Applicant to ensure all contact information is current in the certification database.
