
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 128 - VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
#### Subpart D - Federal Contract Assistance
##### ยง 128.401 What requirements must a VOSB or SDVOSB meet to submit an offer on a contract?
###### Recertification.

(e)(1) A Participant that qualifies as a VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of initial offer response which includes price, including a Multiple Award Contract, is generally considered to be a VOSB or SDVOSB throughout the life of that contract. This means that if a VOSB or SDVOSB is certified at the time of initial offer for a Multiple Award Contract, then it will be considered a VOSB or SDVOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a new VOSB or SDVOSB eligibility review in connection with a specific order. Where a concern is later decertified from the Veteran-Owned Small Business Contracting Program, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a VOSB or SDVOSB. For a Multiple Award Contract, a concern that has been decertified from the Veteran-Owned Small Business Contracting Program may still be issued orders as a VOSB or SDVOSB unless the contracting officer requests recertification of VOSB or SDVOSB status in connection with the order. However, the following exceptions apply to this paragraph (e)(1):

(i) Where a contract is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must recertify its status as a VOSB or SDVOSB to the procuring agency or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB within 30 calendar days of the novation approval. If the concern is not a VOSB or SDVOSB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract from that point forward towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals.

(ii) Where a concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its VOSB or SDVOSB status to the procuring agency or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as a VOSB or SDVOSB. If the contractor is not a VOSB or SDVOSB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract from that point forward towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new status.

(iii) Where there has been a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest on the solicitation or contract, part 134 of this chapter describes the effect of the status determination on the contract award.

(2) For the purposes of VOSB or SDVOSB contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its VOSB or SDVOSB status no more than 120 calendar days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 calendar days prior to exercising any option. If the business is unable to recertify its status as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB, the procuring agency may no longer be able to count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals.

(i) A business concern that did not certify itself as a VOSB or SDVOSB, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify itself as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements in this part at that time.
