
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 128 - VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Protests Concerning VOSBs and SDVOSBs
##### ยง 128.500 What are the requirements for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest?

(a) All challenges to the inclusion in the certification database of a VOSB or SDVOSB based on the status of the concern as a small business concern or the ownership or control of the concern, shall be heard by the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Small Business Administration in accordance with part 134 of this chapter. The decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be considered final agency action.

(b) The protest procedures described in part 134 of this chapter are separate from those governing size protests and appeals. All protests relating to whether an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB is a small business for purposes of any Federal program are subject to part 121 of this chapter and must be filed in accordance with that part. If a protester protests both the size of the VOSB or SDVOSB and whether the concern meets the VOSB or SDVOSB requirements set forth in ยง 128.200, SBA will process each protest concurrently under the procedures set forth in parts 121 and 134 of this chapter. SBA does not review issues concerning the administration of a VOSB or SDVOSB contract.

(c) When challenging the SDVOSB status of a joint venture, the managing SDVOSB party to the joint venture must be a certified SDVOSB as of the date of the joint venture's initial offer, including price, for the SDVOSB contract and compliance with the joint venture agreement requirements set forth in ยง 128.402(c) is determined as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding.
