
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 130 - SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
#### ยง 130.330 Operating requirements.

(a) The Lead Center must be an independent entity within the recipient organization, having its own staff, including a full-time SBDC Director.

(b) A Lead Center must provide administrative services and coordination for the SBDC network, including program development, program management, financial management, reports management, promotion and public relations, program assessment and evaluation, and internal quality control.

(c) The Lead Center shall be open to the public throughout the year during the normal business hours of the recipient organization. Anticipated closures shall be included in the annual renewal application. Emergency closures shall be reported to the SBA Project Officer as soon as is feasible. Other SBDC service providers shall be open during the normal business hours of their sponsoring SBDC organizations.

(d) The Lead Center and other SBDC service providers must have a conflict of interest policy applicable to their SBDC consultants, employees, instructors and volunteers.

(e) The SBDC network shall comply with 13 CFR parts 112, 113 and 117, which require that no person shall be excluded on the grounds of age, color, handicap, marital status, national origin, race, religion or sex from participation in, be denied that benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity for which the recipient organization received Federal financial assistance from SBA.
