
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 130 - SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
#### ยง 130.340 SBDC services and restrictions on service.
##### Access to Capital.

(b)(1) SBDCs are encouraged to provide counseling services that increase a small business concern's access to capital, such as business plan development, financial statement preparation and analysis, and cash flow preparation and analysis.

(2) SBDCs should help prepare their clients to represent themselves to lending institutions. While SBDCs may attend meetings with lenders to assist clients in preparing financial packages, the SBDCs may not take a direct role in representing clients in loan negotiations.

(3) SBDCs should inform their clients that financial packaging assistance does not guarantee receipt of a loan.

(4) SBDCs may not make loans, service loans or make credit decisions regarding the award of loans.

(5) With respect to SBA guaranty programs, SBDCs may assist clients to formulate a business plan, prepare financial statements, complete forms which are part of a loan application, and accompany an applicant appearing before SBA. Unless authorized by the SBA Administrator with respect to a specific program, an SBDC may not advocate, recommend approval or otherwise attempt in any manner to influence SBA to provide financial assistance to any of its clients. An SBDC cannot collect fees for helping a client to prepare an application for SBA financial assistance.
