
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 130 - SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
#### ยง 130.630 Dispute resolution procedures.
##### Financial Disputes.

(a)(1) A recipient organization wishing to resolve a financial Dispute formally must submit a written statement describing the subject of the Dispute, together with any relevant documents or other evidence bearing on the Dispute, to the Grants Management Specialist, with copies to the Project Officer. The Grants Management Specialist shall respond in writing to the recipient organization within 30 calendar days of receipt of the descriptive statement.

(2) If the recipient organization receives an unfavorable decision from the Grants Management Specialist, it may file an appeal with the AA/SBDCs within 30 calendar days of issuance of the unfavorable decision. The AA/SBDCs shall respond in writing to the recipient organization within 15 calendar days of receipt of the appeal.

(3) If the recipient organization receives an unfavorable decision from the AA/SBDCs, it may make a final appeal to the SBA Grants and Cooperative Agreements Appeals Committee (the "Committee") within 30 calendar days of the date of issuance of the AA/SBDCs' written decision. Copies of the appeal shall also be sent to the Grants Management Specialist and the Project Officer.

(4) Appeals must be in writing. Formal briefs and other technical forms of pleading are not required. Requests for a hearing will not be granted unless there are material facts substantially in dispute. Appeals must contain at least the following:

(i) Name and address of the recipient organization;

(ii) The SBA field office;

(iii) The Cooperative Agreement;

(iv) A statement of the grounds for appeal, with reasons why the appeal should be sustained;

(v) The specific relief desired on appeal; and

(vi) If a hearing is requested, a statement of the material facts which are substantially in dispute.

(5) The AA/SBDCs or the Committee may request from the SBDC or the District Office additional information or documentation at any stage in the proceedings.

(6) If a request for a hearing is granted, the Committee will provide the recipient organization with written instructions, and will afford the parties an opportunity to present their positions to the Committee.

(7) The Committee will reach a decision on the merits of the appeal within 30 days of the hearing date.

(8) The Chairperson, with advice from the Office of General Counsel, shall prepare and transmit a written final decision to the recipient organization with copies to the Grants Management Specialist and the Project Officer.
