
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 130 - SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
#### ยง 130.700 Suspension, termination and non-renewal.
##### Non-Renewal Procedure.

(c)(1) Subject to ยง 130.700(a), when an SBA District Director believes there is sufficient evidence of SBDC nonperformance, poor performance or unwillingness to implement changes to improve performance, under the terms of the Cooperative Agreement or these regulations, the District Director shall notify the SBDC Director and any other appropriate official of the recipient organization of an intention not to approve its renewal application.

(2) Notice can be submitted at any time during the budget period, but normally should be sent no later than 3 months prior to the due date for renewal applications at the District Office.

(3) The notice shall specifically cite the reasons for the intention not to renew. It must allow the recipient organization 60 days within which to change its operations to correct the problems cited in the notice, and to report to the Project Officer, in writing, regarding the results of such changes.

(4) If the recipient organization is unwilling or unable to address the specific problem areas to the satisfaction of the SBA District Office within the 60-day period, the SBA Project Officer shall have ten (10) calendar days after expiration of the 60 days to submit to the AA/SBDCs a written description of the unresolved issues, a summary of the positions of the District Office on the issues, and any supportive documentation.

(5) The AA/SBDCs shall transmit a written, final decision to the recipient organization, the SBDC Director, the SBA Project Officer and other appropriate SBA field office personnel within 30 calendar days of receipt of such documentation, unless an extension of time is mutually agreed upon by the recipient organization and the AA/SBDCs.

(6) The AA/SBDCs shall consider written documentation of the issues to be resolved, including all relevant correspondence between the Project Officer, District Director and any other SBA personnel and the affected recipient organization. At a minimum, such documentation shall commence with the first written notice of issues invoking the non-renewal procedure. In addition, the AA/SBDCs also may communicate with the recipient organization and appropriate SBA personnel.

(7) If the AA/SBDCs determines that the evidence submitted establishes nonperformance, ineffective performance or an unwillingness to implement suggested changes to improve performance, the AA/SBDCs shall have full discretion to order non-renewal of the SBDC. The SBA District Office shall then pursue proposals from other organizations interested in applying for SBDC designation. The incumbent SBDC shall have until the end of the budget period or 120 days, whichever is longer, to conclude operations and to submit close-out documents to the SBA District Office. Close-out procedures shall conform with applicable OMB Circulars.
