
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 131 - WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM
#### ยง 131.350 Selection and retention of the WBC Program Director.
##### General.

(a)(1) The WBC Program Director selected to manage the daily operations of the WBC shall possess core competencies in the areas of business and/or entrepreneurship training, project and/or small business management, effective communication, and collaboration.

(2)(i) The recipient organization must provide written notification to the AA/OWBO or his/her designee within five business days following a vacancy in a WBC Program Director position. The notification must include the date the former WBC Program Director vacated the position, as well as the name, resume, salary, date of appointment, and contact information for the person assigned the role of the WBC Interim Program Director. If the WBC Program Director temporarily vacates the position, the notification must include the projected date of return. The placement of an Interim Program Director does not require the submission of a key personnel change request; however, the information outlined in this section must be submitted to the OWBO Program Analyst, via email, consistent with the required timeframe.

(ii) The Interim Director may not remain in the position more than 90 calendar days from the date of the vacancy without written approval from the AA/OWBO. The recipient organization must document the appointment of the Interim Program Director in accordance with its policies and procedures and the cooperative agreement.

(3) An Interim Program Director must allocate a sufficient amount of his/her time and effort to management of the daily operations of the WBC program until a permanent WBC Program Director is in position.

(4) Within 30 days from the date of the vacancy, the recipient organization must provide OWBO with its plan of how it will ensure that a full-time WBC Program Director is hired within the 90 day timeframe allocated.

(5) If it is anticipated that the Interim Program Director will be in the position for more than 90 days, prior to the end of the 90 day period, the recipient organization must submit a written request to the OWBO Program Analyst for approval of an extension. OWBO is not required to reimburse personnel costs for any WBC Interim Program Director that remains in the position for more than 90 days without prior written approval.
