
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 131 - WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM
#### ยง 131.430 Matching funds.

(a) The recipient organization must provide matching funds equal to one-half of the Federal funding received for the first two years of its initial award (a statutory match ratio of 2:1 Federal to non-Federal funding). For the remainder of the time the recipient organization is in the WBC program, it must provide matching funds of one dollar for every dollar of its annual Federal award amount (a statutory match ratio of 1:1 Federal to non-Federal funding). At least 50 percent of the matching funds must be in cash (the sum of non-Federal cash and program income). The remaining 50 percent may be provided through allowable combinations of cash, in-kind contributions (third party), or authorized indirect costs.

(b) Once the cash match and total match requirements have been met, any additional matching funds are considered overmatch. WBCs may provide overmatch if they choose to do so; however, if they have used Federal funds to raise match above the required amount, the funds must only be used to meet the Federal objective of the WBC program and must be verifiable from the non-Federal entity's records. All funds allocated to a WBC project through a budget proposal are subject to Federal rules and regulations, consistent with 2 CFR part 200. The funds must also be used solely for the WBC project. However, this does not prohibit WBC recipient organizations from raising funds separately and apart from the WBC program. Those funds that are not raised with WBC funds and are not used as match are not subject to the same recordkeeping requirements as they are not tied to the WBC program.

(c) If the recipient organization indicates difficulty in meeting the match requirement, it can request a reduction of the Federal award. For specific guidance regarding the allowability, valuation, and documentation of match please see 2 CFR 200.306.
