
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 102 - RECORD DISCLOSURE AND PRIVACY
#### Subpart A - Disclosure of Information
##### ยง 102.3 Requirements pertaining to the submission of requests.
###### Description of records sought.

(b)Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help the component in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, reference number, the timeframe for which the records are sought, the office that created the records, or any other information that will assist the component in locating documents responsive to the request. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the component's FOIA Contact or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they are seeking and to receive assistance in describing the records. If, after receiving a request, a component determines that the request does not adequately describe the records sought, the component will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. The component will also notify the requester that it will not be able to comply with their request unless the additional information it has requested is received from them in writing within 20 working days after the component has requested it. If this type of notification is received, a requester may wish to discuss it with the FOIA Public Liaison. If the component does not receive a written response containing the additional information within 20 working days after it has been requested, the SBA will presume that the requester is no longer interested in the records and will close the file on the request. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the component's designated FOIA Contact or its FOIA Public Liaison, or a representative of the FOI/PA Office, each of whom is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the SBA's response to the request may be delayed.
