
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 134 - RULES OF PROCEDURE GOVERNING CASES BEFORE THE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
#### Subpart F - Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act
##### ยง 134.608 What are the special rules for calculating net worth and number of employees?

(a) Your net worth must include the value of any assets disposed of for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard, and must exclude any obligation incurred for that purpose. Transfers of assets, or obligations incurred, for less than reasonably equivalent value will be presumed to have been made for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard.

(b) If you are an owner of an unincorporated business, or a partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government, your net worth must include the net worth of all of your affiliates. "Affiliates" are:

(1) Corporations or other business entities which directly or indirectly own or control a majority of the voting shares or other ownership interests in the applicant concern; and

(2) Corporations or other business entities in which the applicant concern directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other ownership interests.

(c) Your employees include all those persons regularly working for you at the time the administrative proceeding was initiated, whether or not they were at work on that date. Part-time employees must be included on a proportional basis. You must include the employees of all your affiliates in your total number of employees.
