
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 134 - RULES OF PROCEDURE GOVERNING CASES BEFORE THE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
#### Subpart L - Borrower Appeals of Final SBA Loan Review Decisions
##### ยง 134.1201 Scope of the rules in this subpart.

(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to appeals to OHA from certain final SBA loan review decisions under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and to any other PPP matter referred to OHA by the Administrator of SBA. The PPP was established as a temporary program under section 1102 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136), as amended. PPP loans include first draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act and second draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(37) of the Small Business Act.

(b) A final SBA loan review decision that is appealable under this subpart is an official written decision by SBA, after SBA completes a review of a PPP loan, that finds a borrower:

(1) Was ineligible for a PPP loan;

(2) Was ineligible for the PPP loan amount received or used the PPP loan proceeds for unauthorized uses;

(3) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in the amount determined by the lender in its full approval or partial approval decision issued to SBA; and/or

(4) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in any amount when the lender has issued a full denial decision to SBA.

(c) A borrower cannot directly file an appeal of a decision made by a lender concerning a PPP loan with OHA.

(d) An appeal to OHA is an administrative remedy that must be exhausted before judicial review of a final SBA loan review decision may be sought in a Federal district court.

(e) Any determination by SBA's Office of Inspector General concerning a PPP loan is not appealable to OHA.
