
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 134 - RULES OF PROCEDURE GOVERNING CASES BEFORE THE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
#### Subpart L - Borrower Appeals of Final SBA Loan Review Decisions
##### ยง 134.1211 Decision on appeal.
###### Reconsideration.

(c)An initial decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. If a request for reconsideration is filed and the SBA Administrator does not exercise discretion to review or reverse the initial decision under paragraph (d) of this section, OHA will decide the request for reconsideration and OHA's decision on the request for reconsideration is a reconsidered initial OHA decision.

(1) Either SBA or appellant may request reconsideration by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration within 10 calendar days after service of the Judge's decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. SBA does not have to have filed a response to the borrower's appeal petition to request reconsideration of the initial decision of the Judge.

(2) The Judge may also reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative within 20 calendar days after service of the Judge's decision.

(3) A reconsidered initial OHA decision becomes the final decision of SBA 30 calendar days after its service unless the SBA Administrator, solely within the Administrator's discretion, decides to review or reverse the reconsidered initial OHA decision under paragraph (d) of this section. The discretionary authority of the Administrator does not create any additional rights of appeal on the part of an appellant not otherwise specified in SBA regulations in this chapter.
