
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 136 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
#### ยง 136.150 Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
##### General.

(a)The Agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not-

(1) Necessarily require the Agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps; or

(2) Require the Agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Agency has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 136.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator after considering all Agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. The Administrator or Deputy Administrator's decision shall be made within 30 days of the initial decision by Agency personnel that an action would result in such an alteration or burdens. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would, nevertheless, ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
