
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 136 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
#### ยง 136.170 Compliance procedures.
##### Filing an appeal.

(h)(1) Any notice of appeal to the AA/EEOCCR, with or without a request for hearing, shall be filed by the complainant or the respondent in writing with the AA/EEOCCR within 30 days of receipt from him or her of the letter required by paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of service attesting that the party has served a copy of his or her notice of appeal on all other parties to the proceeding. The AA/EEOCCR may extend this time limit for good cause shown pursuant to the procedure in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(2) If a timely notice of appeal without a request for hearing is filed, any other party may file a written request for hearing within the time limit specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section or within 10 days of his or her receipt of such notice of appeal, whichever is later.

(3) A party may appeal to the AA/EEOCCR from a decision of the AA/EEOCCR that an appeal is untimely. This appeal shall be filed with the AA/EEOCCR within 15 days of receipt of the decision from the AA/EEOCCR.

(4) Any request for hearing will be construed as a request for an oral hearing. The complainant's failure to file a timely request for a hearing in accordance with this part shall constitute waiver of the right to a hearing, but shall not preclude his or her submitting written information and argument to the AA/EEOCCR in connection with his or her notice of appeal.
