
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 136 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
#### ยง 136.170 Compliance procedures.
##### See

(2) Where a request for a hearing has been made, the administrative judge shall issue an initial decision, in writing, based on the hearing record, composed of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and remedies, to the parties and to the AA/EEOCCR within 30 days after receipt of the hearing transcripts, or within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing if no transcript is made. This time limit may be extended with the permission of the AA/EEOCCR. The decision of the administrative judge shall be deemed to be the final decision of the Agency after 30 days, unless a party files a petition for review with the AA/EEOCCR, pursuant to 13 CFR 134.228(a) or the AA/EEOCCR issues an order stating his or her decision to review the initial decision, pursuant to 13 CFR 134.228(a).13 CFR 134.227(b).

(3) Where a petition for review is filed or a review is ordered by the AA/EEOCCR the AA/EEOCCR shall make the final decision of the Agency based on information in the complaint file, the letter of findings, the hearing record, the initial decision, the petition for review, and any responses to the petition or order. The decision shall be made within 60 days of receipt of the petition for review, the order, or any responses to such petition or order, whichever is later. If the AA/EEOCCR determines that he or she needs additional information from any party, he or she shall request the information and provide the other party or parties an opportunity to respond to that information. The AA/EEOCCR shall have 60 days from receipt of the additional information or responses to such additional information, whichever is later, to make the decision. The AA/EEOCCR shall transmit his or her decision by letter to the parties. The decision shall set forth the findings, recommended remedial actions, and reasons for the decision. The decision shall adopt, reject, or modify the initial decision of the administrative judge. If the decision is to reject or modify the initial decision, the decision letter shall set forth in detail the specific reasons for the rejection or modification.

(4) Any respondent required to take action under the terms of the decision of the Agency shall do so promptly. The AA/EEOCCR may require periodic compliance reports specifying:

(i) The manner in which compliance with the provisions of the decision has been achieved;

(ii) The reasons any action required by the final decision has not been taken; and

(iii) The steps being taken to ensure full compliance.

(k) The time limit cited in paragraph (f) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.

(l) The Agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
