
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 140 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - Administrative Wage Garnishment
##### ยง 140.11 What type of debt is subject to administrative wage garnishment, and how can SBA administratively garnish your pay?
###### Amounts withheld.

(i)(1) Your employer must deduct the garnishment amount from your disposable pay during each pay period.

(2) Except as shown in paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section, the amount of garnishment will be the lesser of:

(i) The amount stated on the garnishment order, not to exceed 15% of your disposable pay; or,

(ii) The amount in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) (Restriction on Garnishment). This is the amount by which your disposable pay exceeds an amount equivalent to thirty times the minimum wage. See 29 CFR 870.10.

(3) If your pay is subject to other garnishment orders, the following applies:

(i) Unless otherwise provided by Federal law, the Agency garnishment orders must be paid in the amounts in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, and will have priority over other garnishment orders issued later. However, withholding orders for family support have priority over the Agency garnishment orders.

(ii) If amounts are being withheld from your pay because of a garnishment order issued before the Agency's garnishment order, or because of a garnishment order for family support issued at any time, the earlier or family support order will have priority, and the amount withheld because of the Agency garnishment order will be the lesser of:

(A) The amount calculated under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, or

(B) An amount equal to 25% of your disposable pay minus the amount withheld under the garnishment order(s) with priority.

(iii) If you owe more than one delinquent non-tax debt, the Agency may issue multiple garnishment orders if the amount withheld from your pay does not exceed the amount in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(4) You may give written consent for the Agency to garnish from your pay an amount greater than that in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section.

(5) Your employer must promptly pay to the Agency all amounts withheld under a withholding order.

(6) Your employer is not required to change normal pay cycles to comply with the garnishment order.

(7) No assignment or allotment of your earnings that you have requested may interfere with or prohibit execution of the Agency 's garnishment order. The one exception to this rule is that you may assign or allot earnings because of a family support judgment or order.

(8) The garnishment order will state a reasonable time period within which your employer must begin wage garnishment. Your employer must withhold the designated amount from your wages each pay period until the Agency notifies your employer to stop wage garnishment.
