
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter III - Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 302 - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 302.3 Project servicing for loans, loan guaranties and Investment Assistance.

EDA will provide Project servicing to borrowers who received EDA loans or EDA-guaranteed loans and to lenders who received EDA loan guaranties under an EDA-administered program. Project servicing includes loans made under PWEDA prior to the effective date of the Economic Development Administration Reform Act of 1998, the Trade Act, and the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95-31; 42 U.S.C. 5184 note).

(a) EDA will continue to monitor such loans and loan guaranties in accordance with the applicable loans or loan guaranty program(s).

(b) Borrowers and lenders shall submit to EDA any requests for modifications of their loan or loan guaranty agreements with EDA, as applicable. EDA shall consider and respond to such modification requests in accordance with applicable laws and policies, including the budgetary constraints imposed by the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended (2 U.S.C. 661c(e)).

(c) In the event that EDA determines it necessary or desirable to take actions to protect or further the interests of EDA in connection with loans, loan guaranties or evidence of purchased debt, EDA may:

(1) Assign or sell at public or private sale or otherwise dispose of for cash or credit, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it shall determine to be reasonable, any evidence of debt, contract, claim, personal or real property, or security assigned to or held by it in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance extended under PWEDA;

(2) Collect or compromise all obligations assigned to or held by it in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance awarded under PWEDA until such time as such obligations may be referred to the Attorney General of the United States for suit or collection; and

(3) Take any and all other actions determined to be necessary or desirable in purchasing, servicing, compromising, modifying, liquidating, or otherwise administratively processing or disposing of loans or loan guaranties made or evidence of purchased debt in connection with any EDA loans, EDA-guaranteed loans or Investment Assistance awarded under PWEDA.
