
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart G - Financing of Small Businesses by Licensees
##### Determining the Eligibility of a Small Business for SBIC Financing
###### ยง 107.710 Requirement to finance smaller enterprises.
####### Smaller Enterprise Financings.

(b)At the close or each of your fiscal years, and at the time of any application to draw Leverage, you must satisfy the Smaller Enterprise financing requirement in this paragraph (b) that applies to you.

(1) If you were licensed after February 17, 2009, at least 25 percent (in dollars) of your Financings must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.

(2) If you were licensed on or before February 17, 2009, and you have received no SBA Leverage commitment issued after February 17, 2009, at least 20 percent (in dollars) of your Financings, excluding Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million, must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises. In addition, 100 percent of all Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million (including aggregate Leverage over $90 million issued by two or more Licensees under Common Control) must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.

(3) If you were licensed on or before February 17, 2009, and you have received an SBA Leverage commitment after February 17, 2009:

(i) For all Financings made after the date of the first Leverage commitment issued after February 17, 2009, at least 25 percent (in dollars) of your Financings must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises, and

(ii) For all Financings made before February 17, 2009, at least 20 percent (in dollars) of your Financings, excluding Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million, must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises. In addition, 100 percent of all Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million (including aggregate Leverage over $90 million issued by two or more Licensees under Common Control) must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.
