
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter III - Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 315 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS
#### Subpart C - Certification of Firms
##### ยง 315.7 Processing petitions for certification.
###### Petition by a Firm for Certification of Eligibility to Apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance

(b) A Firm seeking certification shall complete a(Form ED-840P or any successor form) with the following information about such Firm:

(1) Identification and description of the Firm, including legal form of organization, economic history, major ownership interests, officers, directors, management, parent company, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and production and sales facilities;

(2) Description of goods or services supplied or sold;

(3) Description of imported Directly Competitive or Like Articles or Services with those produced or supplied;

(4) Data on its sales, production and employment for the applicable 24-month, 36-month, or 48-month period, as required under ยง 315.6(b);

(5) One copy of a complete auditor's certified financial report for the entire period covering the petition, or if not available, one copy of the complete profit and loss statements, balance sheets and supporting statements prepared by the Firm's accountants for the entire period covered by the petition. In addition, publicly-owned corporations should also submit copies of the most recent Form 10-K annual reports (or Form 10-Q quarterly reports, as appropriate) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for the entire period covered by the petition;

(6) Information concerning customers accounting for a significant percent of the Firm's decline and the customers' purchases (or the Firm's unsuccessful bids, if there are no customers fitting this description); and

(7) Such other information as EDA considers material.

(c) EDA shall determine whether the petition has been properly prepared and can be accepted. Promptly thereafter, EDA shall notify the petitioner that the petition has been accepted or advise the TAAC that the petition has not been accepted, but may be resubmitted at any time without prejudice when the specified deficiencies have been corrected. Any resubmission will be treated as a new petition.

(d) EDA will publish a notice of acceptance of a petition in the.

(e) EDA will initiate an investigation to determine whether the petitioner meets the requirements set forth in section 251(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2341) and ยง 315.6.

(f) A petition for certification may be withdrawn if EDA receives a request for withdrawal submitted by the petitioner before EDA makes a certification determination or denial. A Firm may submit a new petition at any time thereafter in accordance with the requirements of this section and ยง 315.6.

(g) Following acceptance of a petition, EDA will:

(1) Make a determination based on the Record as soon as possible after the petitioning Firm or TAAC has submitted all requested material. In no event may the determination period exceed 40 calendar days from the date on which EDA accepted the petition; and

(2) Either certify the petitioner as eligible to apply for Adjustment Assistance or deny the petition. In either event, EDA shall promptly give written notice of action to the petitioner. Any written notice to the petitioner of a denial of a petition shall specify the reason(s) for the denial. A petitioner shall not be entitled to resubmit a petition within one year from the date of denial unless EDA waives the one-year limitation for good cause.
