
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter III - Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 315 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS
#### Subpart C - Certification of Firms
##### ยง 315.8 Hearings.

EDA will hold a public hearing on an accepted petition if the petitioner or any interested Person found by EDA to have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings submits a request for a hearing no later than 10 calendar days after the date of publication of the notice of acceptance in theunder the following procedures:

(a) The petitioner or any interested Person(s) shall have an opportunity to be present, to produce evidence and to be heard.

(b) A request for public hearing must be delivered by hand or by registered mail to EDA. A request by a Person other than the petitioner shall contain:

(1) The name, address and telephone number of the Person requesting the hearing; and

(2) A complete statement of the relationship of the Person requesting the hearing to the petitioner and the subject matter of the petition, and a statement of the nature of the requesting party's interest in the proceedings.

(c) If EDA determines that the requesting party does not have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings, a written notice of denial shall be sent to the requesting party. The notice shall specify the reasons for the denial.

(d) If EDA determines that the requesting party does have a Substantial Interest in the proceedings, EDA shall publish a notice of a public hearing in thecontaining the subject matter, name of petitioner, and date, time and place of the hearing.

(e) EDA shall appoint a presiding officer for the hearing who shall respond to all procedural questions.
