
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter III - Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 315 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS
#### Subpart D - Adjustment Proposals
##### § 315.11 Adjustment Proposal process.

(a) Firms certified in accordance with the procedures described in §§ 315.6 and 315.7 must prepare an Adjustment Proposal and submit it to EDA for approval within two years after the date of certification.

(b) EDA determines whether to approve the Adjustment Assistance requested in the Adjustment Proposal based upon the evaluation criteria set forth in § 315.12. Upon approval, a Certified Firm may submit a request to the TAAC for Adjustment Assistance to implement an approved Adjustment Proposal. Firms must begin implementation within six months after approval. Firms that do not begin implementation within six months after approval must update, re-submit their Adjustment Proposal, and request re-approval before any Adjustment Assistance may be provided.

(c) EDA will make a determination regarding the Adjustment Proposal no later than 60 calendar days upon receipt of the Adjustment Proposal.

(d) Adjustment Assistance is subject to matching share requirements. Each Certified Firm must pay at least 25 percent of the cost of preparing its Adjustment Proposal. Each Certified Firm requesting $30,000 or less in total Adjustment Assistance in its approved Adjustment Proposal must pay at least 25 percent of the cost of that Adjustment Assistance. Each Certified Firm requesting more than $30,000 in total Adjustment Assistance in its approved Adjustment Proposal must pay at least 50 percent of the cost of that Adjustment Assistance. Certified Firms may request no more than the amount as established by EDA for total Adjustment Assistance over the entire lifetime of the firm.

(e) Firms may request EDA approval to amend their Adjustment Proposals within two years from the date of EDA approval of their initial Adjustment Proposal.

(f) Firms must complete implementation of their Adjustment Proposals within five years of EDA approval of their initial Adjustment Proposal.

(g) If a Certified Firm is transferred, sold, or otherwise acquired by another Firm during the five-year period of Adjustment Assistance, the Firm must notify EDA no later than 30 calendar days following the transfer, sale, or acquisition. EDA will then make a determination as to whether the Firm remains eligible for Adjustment Assistance. EDA will make this determination no later than 60 calendar days following notification by the Firm.

(h) In accordance with Section 255A of chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2345a), Firms that receive Adjustment Assistance must provide data regarding the Firms' sales, employment, and productivity upon completion of the program and each year for the two-year period following completion.
