
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart G - Financing of Small Businesses by Licensees
##### Determining the Eligibility of a Small Business for SBIC Financing
###### ยง 107.720 Small Businesses that may be ineligible for financing.
####### Exception for certain Partnership Licensees.

(3)If you are a Partnership Licensee, you may form one or more blocker entities in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3). For the purposes of this paragraph, a "blocker entity" means a corporation or a limited liability company that elects to be taxed as a corporation for Federal income tax purposes. The sole purpose of a blocker entity must be to provide Financing to one or more eligible, unincorporated Small Businesses. You may form such blocker entities only if a direct Financing to such Small Businesses would cause any of your investors to incur "unrelated business taxable income" under section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 511) or to incur "effectively connected income" to foreign investors under sections 871 and 882 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 871 and 882). Your ownership and investment of funds in such blocker entities will not constitute a violation of ยง 107.730(a). For each passive business financed under this section 107.720(b)(3), you must provide a certification to SBA as required under ยง 107.610(g). A blocker entity formed under this paragraph may provide Financing:

(i) Directly to one or more eligible non-passive Small Businesses; or

(ii) Directly to a passive Small Business that passes substantially all the proceeds directly to (or uses substantially all the proceeds to acquire) one or more eligible non-passive Small Businesses in which the passive Small Business directly owns, or will own as a result of the Financing, at least 50% of the outstanding voting securities.
