
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter IV - Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
### PART 400 - EMERGENCY STEEL GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Steel Guarantee Loans
##### ยง 400.206 Environmental requirements.
###### Environmental information required from the Lender.

(3)(i) Environmental data or documentation concerning the use of the proceeds of any loan guaranteed under this Program must be provided by the Lender to the Board to assist the Board in meeting its legal responsibilities. The Lender may obtain this information from the Borrower. (ii) Such information includes:

(A) Documentation for an environmental threshold review from qualified data sources, such as a Federal, State or local agency with expertise and experience in environmental protection, or other sources, qualified to provide reliable environmental information;

(B) Any previously prepared environmental reports or data relevant to the loan at issue;

(C) Any environmental review prepared by Federal, State, or local agencies relevant to the loan at issue;

(D) The information required for the completion of Form XYZ, "Environmental Assessment and Compliance Findings for Related Environmental Laws;" and

(E) Any other information that can be used by the Board to ensure compliance with environmental laws.

(ii) All information supplied by the Lender is subject to verification by the Board.

(b) The regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality implementing NEPA require the Board to provide public notice of the availability of project specific environmental documents such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, records of decision etc., to the affected public. See 40 CFR 1506.6(b). Environmental information concerning specific projects can be obtained from the Board by contacting: Executive Director, Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
