
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter IV - Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
### PART 400 - EMERGENCY STEEL GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Steel Guarantee Loans
##### ยง 400.206 Environmental requirements.
###### Categorical exclusions.

(4)(1) This paragraph describes various classes of Board actions that normally do not have a significant impact on the human environment and are categorically excluded. The word "normally" is stressed; there may be individual cases in which specific factors require contrary action.

(ii) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, the actions described in this paragraph have been determined not to have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. They are categorically excluded from the need to prepare an environmental assessment or an EIS under NEPA.

(A) Guarantees of working capital loans; and

(B) Guarantees of loans for the refinancing of outstanding indebtedness of the Borrower, regardless of the purpose for which the original indebtedness was incurred.

(iii) Actions listed in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section that otherwise are categorically excluded from NEPA review are not necessarily excluded from review if they would be located within, or in other cases, potentially affect:

(A) A floodplain;

(B) A wetland;

(C) Important farmlands, or prime forestlands or rangelands;

(D) A listed species or critical habitat for an endangered species;

(E) A property that is listed on or may be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places;

(F) An area within an approved State Coastal Zone Management Program;

(G) A coastal barrier or a portion of a barrier within the Coastal Barrier Resources System;

(H) A river or portion of a river included in, or designated for, potential addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System;

(I) A sole source aquifer recharge area;

(J) A State water quality standard (including designated and/or existing beneficial uses and anti-degradation requirements); or

(K) The release or disposal of regulated substances above the levels set forth in a permit or license issued by an appropriate regulatory authority.
