
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter IV - Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
### PART 400 - EMERGENCY STEEL GUARANTEE LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Steel Guarantee Loans
##### ยง 400.210 Assignment or transfer of loans.

(a) Neither the Loan Documents nor the Guarantee of the Board may be modified, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of the Board.

(b) Upon notice to the Board and a certification by the assignor that the assignee is an Eligible Lender, and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and other provisions of this part, a Lender may assign or transfer its interest in the loan including the Loan documents and the Guarantee to a party that qualifies as an Eligible Lender pursuant to ยง 400.201. Any other assignment or transfer will require the prior written approval of the Board.

(c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to transfers which occur by operation of law.

(d) The Agent must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest in a loan guaranteed under the Program equal to at least the lesser of $25 million or fifteen percent of the aggregate amount of the loan. In addition, the Agent must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan equal to at least the minimum amount of the loan required to be held by the Agent under the preceding sentence multiplied by the percentage of the loan represented by the Unguaranteed Portion. A non-Agent Lender must hold and may not assign or transfer an interest in the Unguaranteed Portion of the loan representing no less than five percent of such Lender's total interest in the loan; provided, that a non-Agent Lender may transfer its interest in the Unguaranteed Portion after payment of the Guaranteed Portion has been made under the Guarantee.
