
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter V - Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
### PART 500 - EMERGENCY OIL AND GAS GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loans
##### ยง 500.206 Environmental requirements.
###### Evaluating environmental consequences of proposed actions.

(C)A brief discussion should be included of the need for the proposal, of alternatives as required by 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(E) and their environmental impacts. The discussion of the environmental impacts should include measures to mitigate adverse impacts and any irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources to the proposed project.

(ii) The Executive Director, in preparing an environmental assessment, may:

(A) Tier upon the information contained in a previous EIS, as described in 40 CFR 1502.20;

(B) Incorporate by reference reasonably available material, as described in 40 CFR 1502.21; and/or

(C) Adopt a previously completed EIS reasonably related to the project for which the proceeds of the loan sought to be guaranteed under the Program will be used, as described in 40 CFR 1506.3.

(iii) Because of the statute's admonition to the Board to make its decisions as soon as possible after receiving applications, the Board will not:

(A) Publish notice of intent to prepare an environmental assessment, as described in 40 CFR 1501.7;

(B) Conduct scoping, as described in 40 CFR 1501.7; and

(C) Seek comments on the environmental assessment, as described in 40 CFR 1503.1.

(iv) If, on the basis of an environmental assessment, it is determined that an EIS is not required, a FONSI, as described in 40 CFR 1508.13 will be prepared. The FONSI will include the environmental assessment or a summary of it and be available to the public from the Board. The Executive Director shall maintain a record of these decisions, making them available to interested parties upon request. Requests should be directed to the Executive Director Emergency Oil and Gas Guarantee Loan Program, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20230. Prior to a final loan guarantee decision, a copy of the NEPA documentation shall be sent to their Board for consideration.
