
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart G - Financing of Small Businesses by Licensees
##### Structuring Licensee's Financing of an Eligible Small Business: Terms and Conditions of Financing
###### ยง 107.855 Interest rate ceiling and limitations on fees charged to Small Businesses ("Cost of Money").
####### How to determine the Cost of Money ceiling for a Financing.

(c)At a minimum, you may use a Cost of Money ceiling of 19 percent for a Loan and 14 percent for a Debt Security. To determine whether you may charge more, do the following:

(1) Choose a base rate for your Cost of Money computation. The base rate may be either the Debenture Rate currently in effect plus the applicable Charge determined under ยง 107.1130(d)(1), or your own "Cost of Capital" as determined under paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) For a Loan, add 11 percentage points to the base rate; for a Debt Security, add 6 percentage points. In either case, round the sum down to the nearest eighth of one percent.

(3) If the result is more than 19 percent (for a Loan) or 14 percent (for a Debt Security), you may use it as your Cost of Money ceiling.

(4) If two or more Licensees participate in the same Financing of a Small Business, the base rate used in this paragraph (c) is the highest of the following:

(i) The current Debenture Rate plus the applicable Charge determined under ยง 107.1130(d)(1);

(ii) The Cost of Capital of the lead Licensee; or

(iii) The weighted average of the Cost of Capital for all Licensees participating in the Financing.
