
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart G - Financing of Small Businesses by Licensees
##### Structuring Licensee's Financing of an Eligible Small Business: Terms and Conditions of Financing
###### ยง 107.855 Interest rate ceiling and limitations on fees charged to Small Businesses ("Cost of Money").
####### How to determine your Cost of Capital.

(d)"Cost of Capital" is an optional computation of the weighted average interest rate you pay on your "qualified borrowings". "Qualified borrowings" means your Debentures together with your borrowings at or below the usual interest rate charged by banks in your locality on the date your loan was made.

(1) For any fiscal year, you may compute your Cost of Capital:

(i) As of the first day of your fiscal year, to remain in effect for the entire year; or

(ii) As of the first day of every fiscal quarter during the fiscal year, to remain in effect for the duration of the quarter.

(2) For each qualified borrowing outstanding at your last fiscal year or fiscal quarter end, multiply the ending principal balance (net of related unamortized fees) by the number of days during the past four fiscal quarters that the borrowing was outstanding, and divide the result by 365.

(3) Add together the amounts computed for all borrowings under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The result is your weighted average borrowings.

(4) For all qualified borrowings outstanding at your last fiscal year or fiscal quarter end, determine the aggregate interest expense for the past four fiscal quarters, excluding amortization of loan fees. For the purposes of this paragraph (d)(4):

(i) Interest expense on Debentures includes the 1 percent Charge paid by a Licensee under ยง 107.1130(d)(1); and

(ii) Section 301(d) Licensees with outstanding subsidized Debentures are presumed to have paid interest at the rate stated on the face of such Debentures, without regard to any subsidy paid by SBA.

(5) Divide the interest expense from paragraph (d)(4) of this section by the weighted average borrowings from paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and multiply by 100. The result is your Cost of Capital, which you may use to compute a Cost of Money ceiling under paragraph (c) of this section.
