
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart G - Financing of Small Businesses by Licensees
##### Structuring Licensee's Financing of an Eligible Small Business: Terms and Conditions of Financing
###### § 107.855 Interest rate ceiling and limitations on fees charged to Small Businesses ("Cost of Money").
####### Charges excluded from the Cost of Money.

(g)You may exclude from the Cost of Money:

(1) Discount on the loan portion of a Debt Security, if such discount exists solely as the result of the allocation of value to detachable stock purchase warrants in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(2) Closing fees, application fees, and expense reimbursements, each as permitted under § 107.860.

(3) Reasonable prepayment penalties permitted under § 107.830(d)(3).

(4) Out-of-pocket conveyance and/or recordation fees and taxes.

(5) Reasonable closing costs.

(6) Fees for management services as permitted under § 107.900.

(7) Reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket expenses you incur to monitor the Financing.

(8) Board of director fees not in excess of those paid to other outside directors, if your board representation meets the requirements of § 107.730(e).

(9) A reasonable fee for arranging financing for a Small Business from a source that is neither a Licensee nor an Associate of yours. The Small Business must agree in writing to pay such a fee before you arrange the financing.

(10) The difference between the contractual interest rate of the Financing and a default rate of interest permitted as follows:

(i) If a Small Business is in default, you may charge a default rate of interest as much as 7 percentage points higher than the contractual rate until the default is cured.

(ii) For this purpose, "default" means either failure to pay an amount when due or failure to provide information required under the Financing documents.

(11) Royalty payments based on improvement in the performance of the Small Business after the date of the Financing.

(12) Gains realized on the disposition of Equity Securities issued by the Small Business.
