
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart I - SBA Financial Assistance for Licensees (Leverage)
##### General Information About Obtaining Leverage
###### § 107.1120 General eligibility requirements for Leverage.
####### See

(d) For any Leverage draw that would cause you and any other Licensees under Common Control to have aggregate outstanding Leverage in excess of $150 million, certify that none of the Licensees has a condition of Capital Impairment.also § 107.1150(b).

(e) For any Leverage request pursuant to § 107.1150(d)(2)(i), certify that at least 50 percent (in dollars) of your Financings made on or after the date of such request will be invested in Small Businesses located in low-income geographic areas.

(f) For any Leverage request pursuant to § 107.1150(d)(2)(ii), certify that at least 50 percent (in dollars) of the Financings made by each Licensee under Common Control on or after the date of such request will be invested in Small Businesses located in low-income geographic areas.

(g) Certify in writing that you are in compliance with the requirement to finance Smaller Enterprises in § 107.710(b).

(h) Show, to the satisfaction of SBA, that your management is qualified and has the knowledge, experience, and capability necessary for investing in the types of businesses contemplated by the Act, the regulations in this part and your business plan.

(i) Be in compliance with the regulations in this part.

(j) If required by SBA, have your Control Person(s) assume, in writing, personal responsibility for your Leverage, effective only if such Control Person(s) participate (directly or indirectly) in a transfer of Control not approved by SBA.

(k) If you are an Early Stage SBIC, certify in writing that in accordance with § 107.1810(f)(11), at least 50 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of your Financings will be provided to "early stage" companies as defined under the definition of Early Stage SBIC in § 107.50 of this part.
