
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart I - SBA Financial Assistance for Licensees (Leverage)
##### Maximum Amount of Leverage for Which a Licensee Is Eligible
###### ยง 107.1150 Maximum amount of Leverage for a Section 301(c) Licensee.
####### Additional Leverage based on Energy Saving Qualified Investments in Smaller Enterprises.

(e)(1) Subject to SBA's credit policies, if you were licensed on or after October 1, 2008, you may have outstanding Leverage in excess of the amounts permitted by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in accordance with this paragraph (e). Any investment that you use as a basis to seek additional Leverage under this paragraph (e) cannot also be used to seek additional Leverage under paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) To determine whether you may request a draw that would cause you to have outstanding Leverage in excess of the amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section:

(i) Determine the cost basis, as reported on your most recent filing of SBA Form 468, of any Energy Saving Qualified Investments in a Smaller Enterprise that individually do not exceed 20% of your Regulatory Capital.

(ii) Calculate the amount that equals 33% of your Leverageable Capital.

(iii) Subtract from your outstanding Leverage the lesser of paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii).

(iv) If the amount calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) is less than the maximum Leverage determined under paragraph (a) of this section, the difference between the two amounts equals your additional Leverage availability.
