
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart I - SBA Financial Assistance for Licensees (Leverage)
##### Special Rules for Leverage Issued by an Early Stage SBIC
###### § 107.1180 Required distributions to SBA by Early Stage SBICs.
####### SBA's share of Distribution.

(d)For each proposed Distribution, determine SBA's share of the Distribution as follows:

(1) Determine the highest ratio of outstanding Leverage to Leverageable Capital that you have ever attained (your "Highest Leverage Ratio"). For the purpose of determining your Highest Leverage Ratio, any deferred interest Debentures issued at a discount must be included in the computation at their face value.

(2) Determine SBA's percentage share of cumulative Distributions:

(i) If your Capital Impairment Percentage under § 107.1840 is less than 50 percent as of the Distribution date or your Highest Leverage Ratio equals 0.5 or less, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, SBA's percentage share of cumulative Distributions equals:

(ii) If your Capital Impairment Percentage under § 107.1840 is 50 percent or greater as of the Distribution date and your Highest Leverage Ratio is greater than 0.5, SBA's percentage share of cumulative Distributions equals 100 percent.

(iii) If you have a condition of Capital Impairment under § 107.1830 and your Highest Leverage Ratio equals 0.5 or less as of the Distribution date, SBA's percentage share of cumulative Distributions equals 100 percent.

(3) Multiply the sum of all your prior Distributions and your current proposed Distribution (including Distributions to SBA, your limited partners and your General Partner) by SBA's percentage share of cumulative Distributions as determined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(4) From the result in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, subtract the sum of all your prior Distributions to SBA under this § 107.1180.

(5) The amount of your Distribution to SBA will be the least of:

(i) The result in paragraph (d)(4) of this section;

(ii) Your current proposed Distribution; or

(iii) Your outstanding Leverage.
