
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart I - SBA Financial Assistance for Licensees (Leverage)
##### Participating Securities Leverage
###### ยง 107.1530 How a Licensee computes SBA's Profit Participation.
####### How to compute the Base.

(c)As of the end of each fiscal year and any year-to-date interim period for which you want to make a Distribution, compute your Base using the following formula:

(1) If the Base computed as of the end of your previous fiscal year (your "Previous Base") was less than zero, your Unused Loss equals your Previous Base.

(2) If your Previous Base was zero or greater, your Unused Loss equals zero, with the following exception: If you made an interim Distribution of Profit Participation during your previous fiscal year, and your Previous Base was lower than the interim Base on which your Distribution was computed, then your Unused Loss equals the difference between the interim Base and the Previous Base. For example, assume you are computing your Base as of December 31, 1997, your fiscal year end. Your Previous Base, computed as of December 31, 1996, was $3,000,000. During 1996, you made an interim Distribution which was computed on a Base of $3,500,000 as of June 30, 1996. The $500,000 difference between the 1996 interim and year-end Bases would be carried forward as Unused Loss in the computation of your Base as of December 31, 1997.

(3) If you had no Participating Securities outstanding as of the end of your last fiscal year, you may request SBA's approval to treat your Undistributed Net Realized Loss, as reported on SBA Form 468 for that year, as Unused Loss. If you did not file SBA Form 468 because you were not yet licensed as of the end of your last fiscal year, you may request SBA's approval to treat pre-licensing losses as Unused Loss.
