
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 107 - SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES
#### Subpart I - SBA Financial Assistance for Licensees (Leverage)
##### Funding Leverage by Use of SBA-Guaranteed Trust Certificates ("TCs")
###### ยง 107.1630 SBA regulation of Brokers and Dealers and disclosure to purchasers of Leverage or Trust Certificates.
####### Suspension and/or termination of Broker or Dealer.

(c)SBA shall exclude from the sale and all other dealings in Debentures, Participating Securities or TCs any broker or dealer:

(1) If such broker's or dealer's authority to engage in the securities business has been revoked or suspended by a supervisory agency. When such authority has been suspended, such broker or dealer will be suspended by SBA for the duration of such suspension by the supervisory agency.

(2) If such broker or dealer has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with a misdemeanor or felony bearing on its fitness, such broker or dealer may be suspended while the charge is pending. Upon conviction, participation may be terminated.

(3) If such broker or dealer has suffered an adverse final civil judgment, holding that such broker or dealer has committed a breach of trust or violation of law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships, participation in the market for Debentures, Participating Securities or TCs may be terminated.

(4) If such broker or dealer has failed to make full disclosure of the information required by SBA in paragraph (a) of this section, such broker's or dealer's participation in the market for Debentures, Participating Securities or TCs may be terminated.
