
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 108 - NEW MARKETS VENTURE CAPITAL ("NMVC") PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Qualifications for the NMVC Program
##### Organizing a NMVC Company
###### § 108.160 Special rules for NMVC Companies formed as limited partnerships.
####### Entity General Partner.

(a)(1) A general partner which is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership (an "Entity General Partner") shall be organized under state law solely for the purpose of serving as the general partner of one or more NMVC companies.

(2) SBA must approve any person who will serve as an officer, director, manager, or general partner of the Entity General Partner. This provision must be stated in an Entity General Partner's Certificate of Incorporation, operating agreement, limited partnership agreement or other similar governing instrument.

(3) An Entity General Partner is subject to the same examination and reporting requirements as a NMVC Company under sections 361 and 362 of the Act. The restrictions and obligations imposed upon a NMVC Company by §§ 108.1810, 108.30, 108.410 through 108.450, 108.470, 108.500, 108.510, 108.585, 108.600, 108.680, 108.690 through 108.692, and 108.1910 apply also to an Entity General Partner of a NMVC Company.

(4) The general partner(s) of your Entity General Partner(s) will be considered your general partner.

(5) If your Entity General Partner is a limited partnership, its limited partners may be considered your Control Person(s) if they meet the definition for Control Person in § 108.50.
