
# Title 13 - Business Credit and Assistance
## Chapter I - Small Business Administration
### PART 102 - RECORD DISCLOSURE AND PRIVACY
#### Subpart A - Disclosure of Information
##### ยง 102.8 Fees.
###### Advance payments.,i.e.,

(j)(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section, components cannot require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(2) When a component determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. Components may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any component or SBA within 30 working days of the billing date, a component may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and the component may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before SBA begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. When a component has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.

(4) In cases in which advanced payment is required, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 working days after the date of the fee determination, the request will be closed.
