
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 604 - ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
##### Subpart 604.16 - Unique Procurement Instrument Identifiers
###### 604.1601 Policy.
####### http://www.aopeprocurementreports.com/ReportServer_OPEMS2008/Pages/ReportViewer.aspx?%2fDOSReport%2fPostCodeList&rs:Command=Render.

(i) The first six positions shall commence with "S" to designate a DOS-issued contract. The remaining five characters shall identify the activity preparing the instrument. Domestic and overseas contracting activities shall assign the character codes using the five-digit designator from the listing atDOS organizations not listed shall contact A/OPE for assignment of an office code.

(ii) The seventh and eighth positions shall be the last two digits of the fiscal year in which the number is assigned.

(iii) The ninth position shall be a capital letter assigned to indicate the type of instrument, as follows:

(iv)(A) The tenth through thirteenth positions shall be the serial number for the instrument. A separate set of serial numbers may be used for any type of instrument listed in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. Each series of numbers for the same activity shall begin with the number 0001 at the start of each fiscal year.

(v)(A) The following illustrates a properly configured contract number for the first number assigned to a fiscal year 2015 contract awarded by the Department of State, Embassy Ottawa: SCA525-15-C-0001

(B) Use of the dashes to separate the individual elements of the series is optional; however, when reporting individual contract actions to the Federal Procurement Data System (see FAR subpart 6.4), dashes shall not be used.

(C) Contracting activities are authorized to use the first digit of the serial number (position 10) to establish discrete series of numbers. For example, the "1000" series may be reserved for Bureau of Consular Affairs requirements (domestic), or the "1000" series may be reserved for Economic section requirements (overseas). Use of discrete series is appropriate generally for activities handling large numbers of transactions and can provide useful management information.
