
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 609 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 609.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 609.406-3 Procedures.
####### Decisionmaking process.

(b)(1) If the contractor does not respond to a debarment notice within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice, the debarring official may put the debarment into effect.

(2) In response to the debarment notice, if the contractor or its representative notifies the debarring official within 30 days after receipt of the notice that it wants to present information and arguments in person to the debarring official, that official, or a designee, shall chair such a meeting. The oral presentation shall be conducted informally and a transcript need not be made. However, the contractor may supplement its oral presentation with written information and arguments for inclusion in the administrative record.

(3) Pursuant to FAR 9.406-3(b)(2), the contractor may request a fact-finding proceeding.

(4) The debarring official shall designate a fact-finding official and shall provide the fact-finding official with a copy of all documentary evidence considered in proposing debarment. Upon receipt of such material, the fact-finding official shall notify the contractor and schedule a hearing date.

(5) In addition to the purposes provided in FAR 9.406-3(b)(2), the hearing is intended to provide the debarring official with findings of fact based on a preponderance of evidence submitted to the fact-finding official and to provide the debarring official with a determination as to whether a cause for debarment exists, based on the facts as found.

(6) The fact-finding proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with procedures determined by the fact-finding official. The rules shall be as informal as is practicable, consistent with FAR 9.406-3(b). The fact-finding official is responsible for making the transcribed record of the hearing, unless the contractor and the fact-finding official agree to waive the requirement for a transcript.

(7) The fact-finding official shall deliver written findings and the transcribed record, if made, to the debarring official. The findings shall resolve any facts in dispute based on a preponderance of the evidence presented and recommend whether a cause for debarment exists.
