
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 619 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 619.2 - Policies
###### 619.202-70 The Department of State Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program.
####### Obligation.

(m)(1) A mentor or prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm may voluntarily withdraw from the program. However, in no event shall such withdrawal impact the program mission and contractual requirements under the prime contract.

(2) Mentor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms shall submit to OSDBU annual reports on program progress of the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreements. Large business mentors may submit these reports as part of their SB, HUBZone, SDB, WOSB, VOSB, and SDVOSB plan submission in accordance with the due date on the SF-295. DOS shall consider the following in evaluating these reports:

(i) Specific actions taken by the contractor, during the evaluation period, to increase the participation of prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s as suppliers to the U.S. Government and to commercial entities;

(ii) Specific actions taken by the mentor, during the evaluation period, to develop the technical and corporate administrative expertise of a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; as defined in the agreement;

(iii) To what extent the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; has met the developmental objectives in the agreement; and,

(iv) To what extent the mentor firm's participation in the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program resulted in the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; receiving contract(s) and subcontract(s) from private firms and agencies other than the DOS.

(3) The DOS OSDBU shall submit the annual reports to the cognizant contracting officer regarding participating prime contractor(s) performance in the program.

(4) Mentor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms shall submit an evaluation to the OSDBU at the conclusion of the mutually agreed upon program period, the conclusion of the contract, or the voluntary withdrawal by either party from the program, whichever comes first.
