
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 8 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 8.4 - Federal Supply Schedules
###### 8.405-3 Blanket purchase agreements (BPAs).
####### If estimated value of the BPA exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold.

(v)The ordering activity contracting officer-

(A) Shall post the RFQ on e-Buy to afford all schedule contractors offering the required supplies or services under the appropriate multiple-award schedule an opportunity to submit a quote; or

(B) Shall provide the RFQ, which includes the statement of work and evaluation criteria, to as many schedule contractors as practicable, consistent with market research appropriate to the circumstances, to reasonably ensure that quotes will be received from at least three contractors that can fulfill the requirements. When fewer than three quotes are received from schedule contractors that can fulfill the requirements, the contracting officer shall document the file. The contracting officer shall prepare a written determination explaining that no additional contractors capable of fulfilling the requirements could be identified despite reasonable efforts to do so. The determination must clearly explain efforts made to obtain quotes from at least three schedule contractors.

(vi) The ordering activity contracting officer shall ensure all quotes received are fairly considered and award is made in accordance with the basis for selection in the RFQ. The ordering activity is responsible for considering the level of effort and the mix of labor proposed to perform, and for determining that the proposed price is reasonable.

(vii) The BPA must be established in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv) or (v), and with paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section, unless the requirement is waived on the basis of a justification that is prepared and approved in accordance with 8.405-6.
