
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter H - Clauses and Forms
#### PART 652 - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES
##### Subpart 652.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses
###### 652.236-70 Additional Safety Measures.
####### Written program.

(f)The plan required by paragraph (f)(1) of the clause entitled "Accident Prevention Alternate I" shall be known as the Site Safety and Health Plan (SSHP) and shall address any activities listed in paragraph (a) of this clause, or as otherwise required by the contracting officer/COR.

(1) The SSHP shall be submitted at least 10 working days prior to commencing any activity at the site.

(2) The plan must address developing activity hazard analyses (AHAs) for specific tasks. The AHAs shall define the activities being performed and identify the work sequences, the specific anticipated hazards, site conditions, equipment, materials, and the control measures to be implemented to eliminate or reduce each hazard to an acceptable level of risk. Work shall not begin until the AHA for the work activity has been accepted by the COR and discussed with all engaged in the activity, including the Contractor, subcontractor(s), and Government on-site representatives.

(3) The names of the Competent/Qualified Person(s) required for a particular activity (for example, excavations, scaffolding, fall protection, other activities as specified by EM 385-1-1) shall be identified and included in the AHA. Proof of their competency/qualification shall be submitted to the contracting officer or COR for acceptance prior to the start of that work activity. The AHA shall be reviewed and modified as necessary to address changing site conditions, operations, or change of competent/qualified person(s).
