
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 701 - FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart 701.4 - Deviations from the FAR or AIDAR
###### 701.470 Procedure.
####### Deviation from the FAR or AIDAR affecting one contract or transaction.

(a)(1) Deviations which affect only one contract or procurement will be made only after prior approval by the head of the contracting activity. Deviation requests containing the information listed in paragraph (c) of this section shall be submitted sufficiently in advance of the effective date of such deviation to allow adequate time for consideration and evaluation by the head of the contracting activity.

(2) Requests for such deviations may be initiated by the responsible USAID contracting officer who must obtain clearance and approvals as may be required by the head of the contracting activity. Prior to submission of the deviation request to the head of the contracting activity for approval, the contracting officer must obtain written comments from the Bureau for Management, Office of Acquisition and Assistance, Policy Division (M/OAA/P), hereinafter referred to as "M/OAA/P". M/OAA/P will normally be allowed 10 working days prior to the submission of the deviation request to the head of the contracting activity to review the request and to submit comments. If the exigency of the situation requires more immediate action, the requesting office may arrange with M/OAA/P for a shorter review period. In addition to a copy of the deviation request, M/OAA/P must be furnished any background or historical data that will contribute to a more complete understanding of the deviation. The comments of M/OAA/P must be made a part of the deviation request file, which is forwarded to the head of the contracting activity.

(3) Coordination with the Office of the General Counsel, as appropriate, should also be effected prior to approval of a deviation by the head of the contracting activity.
