
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 701 - FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart 701.4 - Deviations from the FAR or AIDAR
###### 701.470 Procedure.
####### Class deviations from the FAR or AIDAR.

(b)Class deviations are those which affect more than one contract or contractor.

(1) Class deviations from the AIDAR will be processed in the same manner as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. Individual heads of contracting activities have authority to approve class deviations affecting only contracts within their own contracting activities, except that the Director, M/OAA, has authority to approve class deviations that affect more than one contracting activity.

(2) Class deviations from the FAR will be considered jointly by USAID and the Chairperson of the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council (C/CAAC) (FAR 1.404) unless, in the judgment of the head of the contracting activity, after due consideration of the objective of uniformity, circumstances preclude such consultation. The head of the contracting activity must certify on the face of the deviation the reason for not coordinating with the C/CAAC. In such cases, M/OAA/P will be responsible for notifying the C/CAAC of the class deviation.

(3) Class deviations from the FAR shall be processed as follows:

(i) The request must be processed in the same manner as paragraph (a) of this section, except that M/OAA/P will be allowed 15 working days, prior to the submission of the deviation request to the head of the contracting activity, to effect the necessary coordination with the C/CAAC and to submit comments. If the exigency of the situation requires more immediate action, the requesting office may arrange with M/OAA/P for a shorter review and coordination period. The comments of C/CAAC and M/OAA/P must be forwarded to the head of the contracting activity along with the deviation request and made a part of the deviation request file.

(ii) The request shall be processed in the same manner as paragraph (a) of this section if the request is not being jointly considered by USAID and the C/CAAC.

(4) Deviations involving basic agreements or other master type contracts are considered to involve more than one contract.

(5) Unless the approval is sooner rescinded, class deviations shall expire 2 years from the date of approval provided that deviation authority shall continue to apply to contracts or task orders which are active at the time the class deviation expires. Authority to continue the use of such deviation beyond 2 years may be requested in accordance with the procedures prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(6) Expiration dates shall be shown on all class deviations.

(c) Requests for deviation shall contain a complete description of the deviation, the effective date of the deviation, the circumstances in which the deviation will be used, a specific reference to the regulation being deviated from, an indication as to whether any identical or similar deviations have been approved in the past, a complete justification of the deviation including any added or decreased cost to the Government, the name of the contractor, and the contract or task order number.
