
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 706 - COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 706.3 - Other Than Full and Open Competition
###### 706.302-70 Impairment of foreign aid programs.
####### Limitations.

(c)(1) Proposals must be requested from as many potential offerors as is practicable under the circumstances. Additionally, as required in (48 CFR) FAR 5.201, the contracting officer must publicize the intended award when using the exceptions above, including when using the authority at 706.302-70(b)(5) where the contracting officer has determined that the incumbent contractor is the only practicable, potential offeror.

(2) The contract file must include appropriate explanation and support justifying the award without full and open competition, as provided in (48 CFR) FAR 6.303, except that determinations made under 706.302-70(b)(3) will not be subject to the requirement for contracting officer certification or to approvals in accord with (48 CFR) FAR 6.304.

(3) The authority in 706.302-70(b)(3)(i) shall be used only when no other authority provided in (48 CFR) FAR 6.302 or (48 CFR) AIDAR 706.302 is suitable. The specific foreign assistance objective which would be impaired must be identified and explained in the written determination and finding. Prior consultation with the Agency Competition Advocate (see 706.501) is required before executing the written determination and finding, and this consultation must be reflected in the determination and finding.

(4) Use of the authority in 706.302-70(b)(5) for proposed follow-on amendments in excess of one year or over $250,000 is subject to the approval of the Agency Competition Advocate. For all other follow-on amendments using this authority, the contracting officer's certification required in (48 CFR) FAR 6.303-2(b)(12) will serve as approval.
