
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 719 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 719.273 - The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program
###### 719.273-7 OSDBU review of application.

(a) OSDBU will review the information to establish the Mentor and Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; eligibility and to ensure that the information that is in section 719.273-6 is included. If the application relates to a specific contract, then OSDBU will consult with the responsible contracting officer on the adequacy of the proposed Agreement, as appropriate. OSDBU will complete its review no later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the application or after consultation with the contracting officer, whichever is later. Application for and enrollment into the Program are free and open to the public.

(b) After OSDBU completes its review and provides written approval, the Mentor may execute the Agreement and implement the developmental assistance as provided under the Agreement. OSDBU will provide a copy of the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Agreement to the USAID contracting officer for any USAID contracts affected by the Agreement.

(c) The Agreement defines the relationship between the Mentor and Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms only. The Agreement itself does not create any privity of contract or contractual relationship between the Mentor and USAID nor the Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and USAID.

(d) If the application is disapproved, the Mentor may provide additional information for reconsideration. OSDBU will complete review of any supplemental material no later than 30 days after its receipt. Upon finding deficiencies that USAID considers correctable, OSDBU will notify the Mentor and Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and request correction of deficiencies to be provided within 15 days.
