
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 722 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 722.8 - Equal Employment Opportunity
###### 722.805-70 Procedures.
####### Documentation for the contract file.

(e)Every contract file must contain completed and signed Reps and Certs. The file must clearly show that these documents have been reviewed and accepted by the contracting officer. If the Reps and Certs were revised to make them acceptable (see paragraph (b) of this section), the file must also document what changes were required and why, and verify that the changes were made. The contracting officer shall also document the OFCCP National Preaward Registry review (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section), and, if the Registry does not include the offeror:

(1) For contracts or modifications over $10,000 but less than $10 million, the file must contain a statement from the contracting officer that the contractor is considered in compliance with EEO requirements, and giving the basis for this statement (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section). This statement may be in a separate memorandum to the file or in the memorandum of negotiation.

(2) For contracts or modifications of $10 million or more, the file must document all communications with OFCCP regarding the offeror's compliance. Such documentation includes copies of any written correspondence and a record of telephone conversations, specifying the name, address, and telephone number of the person contacted, a summary of the information presented, and any advice given by OFCCP.
