
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 7 - Agency for International Development
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 722 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 722.8 - Equal Employment Opportunity
###### 722.805-70 Procedures.
####### OFCCP's National Preaward Registry.

(c)If the Reps and Certs are complete, signed, and deemed acceptable, and the contracting officer has no reason to doubt their accuracy, the contracting officer must then consult the OFCCP's National Preaward Registry at the internet website in 48 CFR 22.805(a)(4) (i) to see if the offeror is listed.

(1) If the conditions stated in (48 CFR) FAR 22.805(a) (4) are met (including the contract file documentation requirement in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)), then the contracting officer does not need to take any further action in verifying the offeror's compliance with the requirements of this subpart and (48 CFR) FAR 22.8.

(2) If the offeror does not appear in the National Preaward Registry, and the estimated amount of the contract or subcontract is expected to be under $10 million then the contracting officer may rely on the Reps and Certs as sufficient verification of the offeror's compliance.

(3) If the offeror does not appear in the National Preaward Registry and the estimated amount of the contract or subcontract is $10 million or more, then the contracting officer must request a preaward clearance from the appropriate OFCCP regional office, in accordance with 48 CFR 22.805(a). If the initial contact with OFCCP is by telephone, the contracting officer and OFCCP are to mutually determine what information is to be included in the written verification request. The contracting officer may need to provide the following information in addition to the items listed in (48 CFR) FAR 22.805(a)(5), if so requested by the OFCCP regional office:

(i) Name, title, address, and telephone number of a contract person for the prospective contractor;

(ii) A description of the type of organization (university, nonprofit, etc.) and its ownership (private, foreign, state, etc.).

(iii) Names and addresses of the organizations in a joint venture (if any).

(iv) Type of procurement (new contract-RFP or IFB, amendment, etc.) and the period of the contract.

(v) Copy of approved Reps and Certs.

(d) In the event that OFCCP reports that the offeror is not in compliance, negotiations with the offeror shall be terminated.
