
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 8 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 8.4 - Federal Supply Schedules
###### 8.405-6 Limiting sources.
####### Justification approvals.

(d)(1) For a proposed order or BPA with an estimated value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, but not exceeding $750,000, the ordering activity contracting officer's certification that the justification is accurate and complete to the best of the ordering activity contracting officer's knowledge and belief will serve as approval, unless a higher approval level is established in accordance with agency procedures.

(2) For a proposed order or BPA with an estimated value exceeding $750,000, but not exceeding $15 million, the justification must be approved by the advocate for competition of the activity placing the order, or by an official named in paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section. This authority is not delegable.

(3) For a proposed order or BPA with an estimated value exceeding $15 million, but not exceeding $75 million (or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, not exceeding $100 million), the justification must be approved by-

(i) The head of the procuring activity placing the order;

(ii) A designee who-

(A) If a member of the armed forces, is a general or flag officer; or

(B) If a civilian, is serving in a position in a grade above GS-15 under the General Schedule (or in a comparable or higher position under another schedule); or

(iii) An official named in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(4) For a proposed order or BPA with an estimated value exceeding $75 million (or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, over $100 million), the justification must be approved by the senior procurement executive of the agency placing the order. This authority is not delegable, except in the case of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, acting as the senior procurement executive for the Department of Defense.
