
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 8 - Department of Veterans Affairs
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 808 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### 808.002 Priorities for use of mandatory Government sources.
###### Supplies.

(1)(i) VA inventories including the VA supply stock program (41 CFR 101-26.704) and VA excess.

(ii) Excess from other agencies (see FAR subpart 8.1).

(iii) Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (see 808.603). Prior to considering award of a contract to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., contracting officers shall apply the VA Rule of Two (see 802.101) to determine whether a requirement should be awarded to veteran-owned small businesses under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127-28, by using the preferences and priorities in subpart 819.70. If an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB)/veteran-owned small business (VOSB) as provided in subpart 819.70, FPI remains a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002.

(iv) Supplies that are on the Procurement List maintained by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, through the AbilityOne Program (FAR subpart 8.7). Supplies that are on the Procurement List but which do not meet the definition of a covered product in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section are only required to be procured from a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002 if an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB after following the procedures set forth in subpart 819.70.
