
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 8 - Department of Veterans Affairs
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 819 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 819.70 - The VA Veterans First Contracting Program
###### 819.7001 General.

(a) Sections 502 and 503 of Public Law 109-461, the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006, as amended (38 U.S.C. 8127- 8128), authorizes a VA specific program to increase contracting opportunities for eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by Veterans with service-connected disabilities and small business concerns owned and controlled by Veterans. Once ownership and control by these veterans is verified, these businesses are referred to as service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSBs) and veteran-owned small businesses (VOSBs) or collectively SDVOSB/VOSB for ease of reference.

(b) The program as implemented in this subpart shall be known as the Veterans First Contracting Program. The purpose of the program is to increase contracting opportunities and provide for priority in the award of contracts and subcontracts to SDVOSBs/VOSBs so they can fully participate in the VA contracting process. Eligible SDVOSBs qualify for any VOSB preferences under this subpart.

(c) VA's program is codified at 38 U.S.C. 8127(b), (c), and (d), and provides the authority for VA contracting officers to make awards to SDVOSBs/VOSBs using restricted competition, as well as other than full and open competition (sole source), as set-forth in this subpart. Additionally, 38 U.S.C. 8128 provides the authority for VA to give SDVOSBs/VOSBs priority in the awarding of contracts and subcontracts using evaluation preferences.

(d) Contracting officers shall award contracts by restricting competition to eligible SDVOSBs/VOSBs as provided in 819.7006 and 819.7007. The contracting officer may use other preferences in this subpart as appropriate and in accordance with procuring activity guidelines.

(e) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8128, contracting officers shall give priority to SDVOSBs/VOSBs if such business concern(s) also meet the requirements of that contracting preference. In carrying out this responsibility, contracting officers shall include the clauses prescribed at 808.405-570 and 815.304-71 in competitive solicitations and contracts that are not set-aside for SDVOSB/VOSB, including those under FAR part 12. The requirement in this paragraph (e) applies even when using a contracting preference under FAR part 19 (for example, a women-owned small business set-aside).
