
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 8 - Department of Veterans Affairs
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 847 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 847.2 - Contracts for Transportation or for Transportation-Related Services
###### 847.207-70 VA solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and special requirements.
####### Insurance under patient transportation contracts.

(a)The contracting officer shall ensure that all the proper certificates of insurance are submitted to perform on the contract, as outlined in the solicitation, and subsequently included in the contract file. In accordance with 828.306, the contracting officer shall insert the provision at 852.228-71, Indemnification and Insurance, in solicitations when utilizing term contracts or contracts of a continuing nature for ambulance, automobile and aircraft service. When contracting for these services, consider using requirements language such as the following:

(1) Written proof of insurance coverage as required and outlined in the solicitation is required prior to award of any contract. Coverage must be maintained continually through the life of the contract.

(2) Within 10 days of notification of acceptance and pending award of contract, the contractor shall furnish to the contracting officer a certificate of insurance which shall contain an endorsement to the effect that cancellation of, or any material change in, the policies which adversely affect the interests of the Government in such insurance shall not be effective unless a 30-day advance written notice of cancellation or change is furnished to the contracting officer.

(3) Within 10 days of notification of acceptance and pending award of contract, and prior to award of a contract, the contractor shall furnish to the contracting officer a copy of the contractor's current and valid Worker's Compensation certificate.
