
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 8 - Department of Veterans Affairs
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 847 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 847.2 - Contracts for Transportation or for Transportation-Related Services
###### 847.207-70 VA solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and special requirements.
####### Contractor personnel.

(b)The contracting officer shall ensure that contractor personnel have the appropriate level of training, experience, licensure, and pertinent qualifications to ensure patient safety. When contracting for these services, consider using requirements language such as the following:

(1) All contractor personnel performing contract services shall meet the qualifications as specified in the contract, as well as any qualifications required by Federal, State, County, and local Government entities from the place in which they operate. Contractor personnel shall meet these qualifications at all times while performing contract services.

(2) During the contract period of performance, if the contractor proposes to add-on, or replace personnel to perform contract services, the contractor shall submit required evidence of training, certifications, licensing, background, and security clearances, and any other applicable qualifications to the designated contracting officer's representative (COR). At no time shall the contractor utilize add-on or replacement personnel to perform contract services who do not meet the qualifications under the terms and conditions of the contract.

(3) Records of contractor personnel qualifications and eligibility to perform on the contract must be current and maintained throughout the life of the contract, and be made available for inspection upon request. The contractor shall forward to the contracting officer, on an annual basis, a list of contractor employees listing the employees name, position(s), and licenses and/or certifications and their current certification number. This annual statement of driver competency must include any advanced certifications, such as Advanced Cardiac Life Support or specialized training to assist and secure patients by stretcher or wheelchair, as applicable.

(4) Within seven (7) days after receipt of award notification, the contractor shall provide evidence of required training, certifications, licensing and any other qualifications of any personnel who will be performing services under the contract. The initial documentation shall be provided to the contracting officer and COR.

(c) Contracts must include requirements to report vehicle accidents and incidents to the contracting officer with a formal accident report.

(d) Contracts for ambulance services must require that the contractor meet the current specifications of Federal Specification KKK-A-1822E, "Star of Life Ambulance" standard.
