
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 8 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 8.7 - Acquisition From Nonprofit Agencies Employing People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
###### 8.705-3 Allocation process.

(a) When the direct order process has not been authorized, the ordering office shall submit a written request for allocation (requesting the designation of the AbilityOneparticipating nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or perform the service) to the central nonprofit agency designated in the Procurement List. Ordering offices shall request allocations in sufficient time for a reply, for orders to be placed, and for the nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or provide the service within the required delivery or performance schedule.

(b) The ordering office's request to the central nonprofit agency for allocation shall include the following information:

(1) For supplies-Item name, stock number, latest specification, quantity, unit price, date delivery is required, and destination to which delivery is to be made.

(2) For services-Type and location of service required, latest specification, work to be performed, estimated volume, and required date or dates for completion.

(3) Other requirements; e.g., packing, marking, as necessary.

(c) When an allocation is received, the ordering office shall promptly issue an order to the specified AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency or to the central nonprofit agency, as instructed by the allocation. If the issuance of an order is to be delayed for more than 15 days beyond receipt of the allocation, or canceled, the ordering office shall advise the central nonprofit agency immediately.

(d) Ordering offices may issue orders without limitation as to dollar amount and shall record them upon issuance as obligations. Each order shall include, as a minimum, the information contained in the request for allocation. Ordering offices shall also include additional instructions necessary for performance under the order; e.g., on the handling of Government-furnished property, reports required, and notification of shipment.
