
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Competition Acquisition Planning
#### PART 908 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 908.71 - Acquisition of Special Items
###### 908.7107 Procurement and use of industrial alcohol.
####### Specially denatured spirits.

(2)TTB regulations relating to the acquisition and use of alcohol free of tax, by Government agencies, are set forth in 27 CFR part 20, subpart N, §§ 20.241 to 20.245.

(d) For the user permits to procure and use tax-free alcohol and specially denatured spirits submit the application on the TTB Form 5150.22, "Application for Industrial Alcohol User Permit," (or the current TTB form). When permits are no longer required, they should be forwarded to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau for cancellation. Industrial alcohol procured by use of the TTB form referred to in this subsection shall be used exclusively on DOE work.

(e) The Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) has the authority to sign the TTB application, Form 5150.22. The SPE may delegate this authority to sign the application to specifically named DOE personnel. Requests for new authorizations or changes to existing authorizations shall be submitted by letter to the SPE. A copy of the TTB approved permit shall be sent to the SPE.

(f) Abandoned and forfeited alcohol which has come into the custody or control of a Federal agency may be obtained by following the procedure set forth in the FMR at 41 CFR part 102-41.
