
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 927 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 927.4 - Technical Data and Copyrights
###### 927.404 Rights in technical data in subcontracts. (DOE coverage - paragraphs (g), (k), (l), and (m))
####### Contractor licensing.

(l)In many contracting situations the achievement of DOE's objectives would be frustrated if the Government, at the time of contracting, did not obtain on behalf of responsible third parties and itself limited license rights in and to limited rights data or restricted computer software or both necessary for the practice of subject inventions or data first produced or delivered in the performance of the contract. Where the purpose of the contract is research, development, or demonstration, contracting officers should consult with program officials and Patent Counsel to consider whether such rights should be acquired. No such rights should be obtained from a small business or non-profit organization, unless similar rights in background inventions of the small business or non-profit organization have been authorized in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202(f). In all cases when the contractor has agreed to include a provision assuring commercial availability of background patents, consideration should be given to securing for the Government and responsible third parties at reasonable royalties and under appropriate restrictions, co-extensive license rights for data which are limited rights data and restricted computer software. When such license rights are deemed necessary, the Rights in Data-General clause at FAR 52.227-14 should be supplemented by the addition of Alternate VI as provided at 48 CFR 952.227-14. Alternate VI will normally be sufficient to cover limited rights data and restricted computer software for items and processes that were used in the contract and are necessary in order to insure widespread commercial use or practical utilization of a subject of the contract. The expression "subject of the contract" is intended to limit the licensing required in Alternate VI to the fields of technology specifically contemplated in the contract effort and may be replaced by a more specific statement of the fields of technology intended to be covered in the manner described in the patent clause at 48 CFR 952.227-13 pertaining to "Background Patents." Where, however, limited rights data and restricted computer software cover the main purpose or basic technology of the research, development, or demonstration effort of the contract, rather than subcomponents, products, or processes which are ancillary to the contract effort, the limitations set forth in subparagraphs (k)(1) through (k)(4) of Alternate VI of 48 CFR 952.227-14 should be modified or deleted. Paragraph (k) of 48 CFR 952.227-14 further provides that limited rights data or restricted computer software may be specified in the contract as being excluded from or not subject to the licensing requirements thereof. This exclusion can be implemented by limiting the applicability of the provisions of paragraph (k) of 48 CFR 952.227-14 to only those classes or categories of limited rights data and restricted computer software determined as being essential for licensing. Although contractor licensing may be required under paragraph (k) of 48 CFR 952.227-14, the final resolution of questions regarding the scope of such licenses and the terms thereof, including provisions for confidentiality, and reasonable royalties, is then left to the negotiation of the parties.
