
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 927 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 927.4 - Technical Data and Copyrights
###### 927.404 Rights in technical data in subcontracts. (DOE coverage - paragraphs (g), (k), (l), and (m))
####### Subcontracts.

(k)(1)(i) It is the responsibility of prime contractors and higher tier subcontractors, in meeting their obligations with respect to contract data, to obtain from their subcontractor the rights in, access to, and delivery of such data on behalf of the Government. Accordingly, subject to the policy set forth in this subpart, and subject to the approval of the contracting officer, where required, selection of appropriate technical data provisions for subcontracts is the responsibility of the prime contractors or higher-tier subcontractors. In many, but not all instances, use of the Rights in Technical Data clause of FAR 52.227-14, as modified pursuant to 48 CFR 927.409(a)(1), in a subcontract will provide for sufficient Government rights in and access to technical data. The inspection rights afforded in Alternate V of that clause normally should be obtained only in first-tier subcontracts having as a purpose the conduct of research, development, or demonstration work or the furnishing of supplies for which there are substantial technical data requirements as reflected in the prime contract.

(ii) If a subcontractor refuses to accept technical data provisions affording rights in and access to technical data on behalf of the Government, the contractor shall so inform the contracting officer in writing and not proceed with the award of the subcontract without written authorization of the contracting officer.

(iii) In prime contracts (or higher-tier subcontracts) which contain the Additional Technical Data Requirements clause at FAR 52.227-16, it is the further responsibility of the contractor (or higher-tier subcontractor) to determine whether inclusion of such clause in a subcontract is required to satisfy technical data requirements of the prime contract (or higher-tier subcontract).

(2) As is the case for DOE in its determination of technical data requirements, the Additional Technical Data Requirements clause at FAR 52.227-16 should not be used at any subcontracting tier where the technical data requirements are fully known. Normally, the clause will be used only in subcontracts having as a purpose the conduct of research, development, or demonstration work. Prime contractors and higher-tier subcontractors shall not use their power to award subcontracts as economic leverage to acquire rights in the subcontractor's limited rights data or restricted computer software for their private use, and they shall not acquire rights to limited rights data or restricted computer software on behalf of the Government for standard commercial items without the prior approval of Patent Counsel.
