
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Agency Supplementary Regulations
#### PART 970 - DOE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 970.15 - Contracting by Negotiation
###### 970.1504-5 Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-1, Total Available Fee: Base Fee Amount and Performance Fee Amount, in management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, that include cost-plus-award-fee arrangements.

(1) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I when the award fee cycle consists of two or more evaluation periods.

(2) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II when the award fee cycle consists of one evaluation period.

(3) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate III when the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, requires the contractor to submit a self-assessment.

(4) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate IV when the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, permits the contractor to submit a self-assessment at the contractor's option.

(b)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-3, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives-Facility Management Contracts, in all DOE management and operating contracts and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee.

(2) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I in contracts that do not contain the clause at 952.204-2, Security.

(3) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II in contracts that are awarded on a cost-plus-award-fee basis. The contracting officer should consider including the clause with its Alternate II in contracts that are awarded on a multiple fee basis if the cost-plus-award-fee portion of the contract is significant.

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-4, Cost Reduction, in management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, if cost savings programs are contemplated.

(d) The Contracting officer shall insert the provision at 970.5215-5, Limitation on Fee, in solicitations for management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee.
