
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Agency Supplementary Regulations
#### PART 970 - DOE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 970.22 - Application of Labor Policies
###### 970.2204-1-1 Administrative controls and criteria for application of the Davis-Bacon Act in operational or maintenance activities.
####### Set-ups of device and/or processes.

(1)The proving out of investigative findings and theories of a scientific and technical nature may require the set-up of various devices and/or processes at an early, pre-prototype stage of development. These may range from laboratory bench size to much larger set-ups. As a rule, these set-ups are made within established facilities (normally laboratories), required utility connections are made to services provided as a part of the basic facilities, and the activity as a whole falls within the functional purpose of the facility. Such set-ups are generally not covered. However, the erection of structures which are public works is covered if construction type work, other than incidental work, is involved. Preparatory work for the set-up requiring structural changes or modifications of basic utility services, as distinguished from connections thereto, is covered. The following are illustrations of non-covered set-ups of devices and/or processes:

(i) Assembly of piping and equipment within existing "hot cell" facilities for proving out a conceptual design of a chemical processing unit.

(ii) Assembly of equipment, including adaptation and modification thereof, in existing "hot cell" facilities to prove out a conceptual design for remotely controlled machining equipment.

(iii) Assembly of the first graphite pile in a stadium at Stagg Field in Chicago.

(iv) Assembly of materials and equipment for particular aspects of the direct current thermonuclear experiments to explore feasibility and to study other ramifications of the concept of high energy injection and to collect data thereon.
