
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Agency Supplementary Regulations
#### PART 970 - DOE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 970.22 - Application of Labor Policies
###### 970.2204-1-1 Administrative controls and criteria for application of the Davis-Bacon Act in operational or maintenance activities.
####### Reactor component experiments.

(3)Other experiments are carried on by insertion of experimental components within reactor systems without the use of a loop assembly. An example of reactor facilities erected for such experimental purposes are the special power excursion test reactors (SPETRs) at the National Reactor Test Site which are designed for studying reactor behavior and performance characteristics of certain reactor components. Such a facility may consist of a reactor vessel, pressurizing tank, coolant loops, pumps, heat exchangers, and other auxiliary equipment as needed. The facility also may include sufficient shielding to permit work on the reactor to proceed following a short period of power interruption, and buildings as needed to house the reactor and its auxiliary equipment. The erection and on-site assembly of such a reactor facility is covered, but the components whose characteristics are under study are excluded from coverage. To illustrate, one of the SPETRs planned for studies of nuclear reactor safety is designed to accommodate various internal fuel and control assemblies. The internal structure of the pressure vessel is designed so that cores of different shapes and sizes may be placed in the vessel for investigation, or the entire internal structure may be easily removed and replaced by a structure which will accept a different core design. Similarly, the control rod assembly is arranged to provide for flexibility in the removal of instrument leads and experimental assemblies from within the core.
