
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Agency Supplementary Regulations
#### PART 970 - DOE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 970.22 - Application of Labor Policies
###### 970.2204-1-1 Administrative controls and criteria for application of the Davis-Bacon Act in operational or maintenance activities.

(a) Particular work items falling within one or more of the following criteria normally will be classified as non-covered by the Davis-Bacon Act, hereinafter referred to in this section as the "Act."

(1) Individual work items estimated to cost $2,000 or less. The total dollar amount of the management and operating contract is not a factor to be considered and bears no relation to individual work items classified as construction, alteration and/or repair, including painting and decorating. However, no item of work, the cost of which is estimated to be in excess of $2,000, shall be artificially divided into portions less than $2,000 for the purpose of avoiding the application of the Act.

(2) Work and services that are a part of operational and maintenance activities or which, being very closely and directly involved therewith, are more in the nature of operational activities than construction, alteration, and/or repair work. This includes work and services which would involve a material risk to continuity of operations, to life or property, or to DOE operating requirements, if performed by persons other than the contractor's regular production and maintenance forces. However, any decision that contracts or work items are non-covered for these reasons must be made by the Head of the Contracting Activity without power of delegation.

(3) Assembly, modification, setup, installation, replacement, removal, rearrangement, connection, testing, adjustment, and calibration of machinery and equipment. However, it is noted that these activities are covered if they are part of, or would be a logical part of, the construction of a facility, or if construction-type work which is not "incidental" to the overall effort is involved.

(4) Experimental development of equipment, processes, or devices, including assembly, fitting, installation, testing, reworking, and disassembly. This refers to equipment, processes, and devices which are assembled for the purpose of conducting a test or experiment. The design may be only conceptual in character, and professional personnel who are responsible for the experiment participate in the assembly. Specifically excluded from the category of experimental development are buildings and building utility services, as distinguished from temporary connections thereto. Also specifically excluded from this category is equipment to be used for continuous testing (e.g., a machine to be continuously used for testing the tensile strength of structural members).

(5) Experimental work in connection with peaceful uses of nuclear energy. This refers to equipment, processes and devices which are assembled and/or set in place and interconnected for the purpose of conducting a test or experiment. The nature of the test or experiment is such that professional personnel who are responsible for the test or experiment and/or data to be derived therefrom must, by necessity, participate in the assembly and interconnections. Specifically excluded from experimental work are buildings, building utility services, structural changes, drilling, tunneling, excavation, and back-filling work which can be performed according to customary drawings and specifications, and utility services of modifications to utility services, as distinguished from temporary connections thereto. Work in this category may be performed in mines or in other locations specifically constructed for tests or experiments.

(6) Emergency work to combat the effects of fire, flood, earthquake, equipment failure, accident, or other casualties, and to restart the operational activity following the casualty. Work which is not directly related to restarting the activity or which involves rebuilding or replacement of a structure, structural components, or equipment is excluded from this category.

(7) Decontamination, including washing, scrubbing, and scraping to remove contamination; removal of contaminated soil or other material; and painting or other resurfacing, provided that such painting or resurfacing is an integral part of the decontamination activity and performed by the employees of the contractors performing the decontamination.

(8) Burial of contaminated soil waste or contained liquid; however, initial preparatory work readying the burial ground for use (e.g., any grading or excavating that is a part of initial site preparation, fencing, drilling wells for continued monitoring of contamination, construction of guard or other office space) is covered. Work performed subsequent to burial which involves the placement of concrete or other like activity is also covered.

(b) The classification of a contract as a contract for operational or maintenance activities does not necessarily mean that all work and activities at the contract location are classifiable as outside coverage of the Act since it may be necessary to separate work which should be classified as covered. Therefore, the Heads of Contracting Activities shall establish and maintain controls for the careful scrutiny of proposed work assignments under such contracts to assure that:

(1) Contractors whose contracts do not contemplate the performance of work covered by the Act with the contractor's own forces are neither asked nor authorized to perform work within the scope of the Act. If the actual work assignments do involve covered work, the contract should be modified to include applicable provisions of the Act.

(2) Where covered work is performed by a contractor whose contract contains provisions required by the Act, such work is performed as required by law and the contract. After the contractor has been informed, as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this subsection, that certain work is covered, the responsibilities of the Head of the Contracting Activity to assure compliance is the same as it would be if the work were being performed under a separate construction contract.

(3) Controls provided for above include consideration by the Head of the Contracting Activity and the contractor, before work is begun or contracted out, of the relation of the Act to the annual programming of work; the contractor's work orders; and work contracted out in excess of $2,000. The Head of the Contracting Activity may, if consistent with DOE's responsibilities as described in this subsection, prescribe from time to time classes of work as to which applicability or nonapplicability of the Act is clear, for which the Head of the Contracting Activity will require no further DOE determination on coverage in advance of the work. For all work, controls to be established by the Head of the Contracting Activity should provide for notification to the contractor before work is begun as to whether such work is covered. The Head of the Contracting Activity is responsible for submitting to the Wage and Hours Division, Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210, all DOE requests for project area or installation wage determinations, or individual determinations, or extensions or modification thereto. Requests for such determinations shall be made on Standard Form 308, at least 30 calendar days before they are required for use in advertising for bids or requests for proposals.
