
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 9 - Department of Energy
### Subchapter I - Agency Supplementary Regulations
#### PART 970 - DOE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 970.31 - Contract Cost Principles and Procedures
###### 970.3102-05-46 Travel costs.
####### Costs for transportation, lodging, meals, and incidental expenses.

(a)(1) Costs incurred by contractor personnel on official company business are allowable, subject to the limitations contained in this subsection. Costs for transportation may be based on mileage rates, actual costs incurred, or on a combination thereof, provided the method used results in a reasonable charge. Costs for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses may be based on per diem, actual expenses, or a combination thereof, provided the method used results in a reasonable charge.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this subsection, costs incurred for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses (as defined in the regulations cited in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this subsection) shall be considered to be reasonable and allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the-

(i) Federal Travel Regulation, prescribed by the General Services Administration (41 CFR chapters 300 through 304), for travel in the conterminous 48 United States, available on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Stock No. 922-002-00000-2;

(ii) Joint Travel Regulations, DoD Civilian Personnel, Appendix A, prescribed by the Department of Defense, for travel in Alaska, Hawaii, The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and territories and possessions of the United States, available on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Stock No. 908-010-00000-1; or

(iii) Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), section 925, "Maximum Travel Per Diem Allowances for Foreign Areas," prescribed by the Department of State, for travel in areas not covered in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this subsection, available on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Stock No. 744-008-00000-0.

(3) In special or unusual situations, actual costs in excess of the maximum per diem rates are allowable provided that such amounts do not exceed the higher amounts authorized for Federal civilian employees as permitted in the regulations referenced in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subsection. For such higher amounts to be allowable, all of the following conditions must be met:

(i) One of the conditions warranting approval of the actual expense method, as set forth in the regulations referred to in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subsection, must exist.

(ii) A written justification for use of the higher amounts must be approved by an officer of the contractor's organization or designee to ensure that the authority is properly administered and controlled to prevent abuse.

(iii) If it becomes necessary to exercise the authority to use the higher actual expense method repetitively or on a continuing basis in a particular area, the contractor must obtain advance approval from the contracting officer.

(iv) Documentation to support actual costs incurred shall be in accordance with the contractor's established practices, subject to paragraph (a)(7) of this subsection, and provided that a receipt is required for each expenditure of $75.00 or more. The approved justification required by paragraph (a)(3)(ii) and, if applicable, paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this subsection must be retained.

(4) Paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this subsection do not incorporate the regulations cited in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this subsection in their entirety. Only the maximum per diem rates, the definitions of lodging, meals, and incidental expenses, and the regulatory coverage dealing with special or unusual situations are incorporated in this subsection.

(5) An advance agreement (see 48 CFR 31.109 and 970.3101-9) with respect to compliance with paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this subsection may be useful and desirable.

(6)(i) The maximum per diem rates referenced in paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection generally would not constitute a reasonable daily charge-

(A) When no lodging costs are incurred; and/or

(B) On partial travel days (e.g., day of departure and return).

(ii) Appropriate downward adjustments from the maximum per diem rates would normally be required under these circumstances. While these adjustments need not be calculated in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation or Joint Travel Regulations, they must result in a reasonable charge.

(7) Costs shall be allowable only if the following information is documented:

(i) Date and place (city, town, or other similar designation) of the expenses;

(ii) Purpose of the trip; and

(iii) Name of person on trip and that person's title or relationship to the contractor.

(b) Travel costs incurred in the normal course of overall administration of the business are allowable and shall be treated as indirect costs.

(c) Travel costs directly attributable to specific contract performance are allowable and may be charged to the contract under 48 CFR 31.202.

(d) Airfare costs in excess of the lowest customary standard, coach, or equivalent airfare offered during normal business hours are unallowable except when such accommodations require circuitous routing, require travel during unreasonable hours, excessively prolong travel, result in increased cost that would offset transportation savings, are not reasonably adequate for the physical or medical needs of the traveler, or are not reasonably available to meet mission requirements. However, in order for airfare costs in excess of the standard airfare to be allowable, the applicable condition(s) must be documented and justified.

(e)(1) "Cost of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft," as used in this paragraph, includes the cost of lease, charter, operation (including personnel), maintenance, depreciation, insurance, and other related costs.

(2) The costs of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft are limited to the standard airfare described in paragraph (d) of this subsection for the flight destination unless travel by such aircraft is specifically required by contract specification, term, or condition, or a higher amount is approved by the contracting officer. A higher amount may be agreed to when one or more of the circumstances for justifying higher than standard airfare listed in paragraph (d) of this subsection are applicable, or when an advance agreement under paragraph (e)(3) of this subsection has been executed. In all cases, travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft must be fully documented and justified. For each contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft used for any business purpose which is charged or allocated, directly or indirectly, to a Government contract, the contractor must maintain and make available manifest/logs for all flights on such company aircraft. As a minimum, the manifest/log shall indicate-

(i) Date, time, and points of departure;

(ii) Destination, date, and time of arrival;

(iii) Name of each passenger and relationship to the contractor;

(iv) Authorization for trip; and

(v) Purpose of trip.

(3) Where an advance agreement is proposed (see 48 CFR 31.109), consideration may be given to the following:

(i) Whether scheduled commercial airlines or other suitable, less costly, travel facilities are available at reasonable times, with reasonable frequency, and serve the required destinations conveniently;

(ii) Whether increased flexibility in scheduling results in time savings and more effective use of personnel that would outweigh additional travel costs.

(f) Costs of contractor-owned or -leased automobiles, as used in this paragraph, include the costs of lease, operation (including personnel), maintenance, depreciation, insurance, etc. These costs are allowable, if reasonable, to the extent that the automobiles are used for company business. That portion of the cost of company-furnished automobiles that relates to personal use by employees (including transportation to and from work) is compensation for personal services and is unallowable as stated in 48 CFR 31.205-6(m)(2).
