
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 9 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 9.1 - Responsible Prospective Contractors
###### 9.109-4 Certification by the offeror.
####### https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-arms-control-and-international-security-affairs/bureau-of-arms-control-verification-and-compliance/"

(1)(i) Certify that it does not engage and has not engaged in any activity that contributed to or was a significant factor in the President's or Secretary of State's determination that a foreign country is in violation of its obligations undertaken in any arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament agreement to which the United States is a party, or is not adhering to its arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament commitments in which the United States is a participating state. The determinations are described in the most recent unclassified annual report provided to Congress pursuant to section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a). The report is available at; and

(ii) Similarly certify with regard to any entity owned or controlled by the offeror; or

(2) Provide with its offer information that the President of the United States has-

(i) Waived application under 22 U.S.C. 2593e(d) or (e); or

(ii) Determined under 22 U.S.C. 2593e(g)(2) that the entity has ceased all activities for which measures were imposed under 22 U.S.C. 2593e(b).

(b) If certifying in accordance with 52.209-13(b)(1), the Offeror is required to submit the certification with the offer. It is not included in the annual representations and certifications in the System for Award Management.

(c) The contracting officer may rely on an offeror's certification unless the contracting officer has reason to question the certification.

(d) Upon the determination of a false certification under 52.209-13, an offeror will be subject to such remedies as suspension or debarment under subpart 9.4, or termination of any contract resulting from the false certification. Debarments pursued as a remedy under subpart 9.4 shall be for a period of not less than 2 years, inclusive of any suspension period, if suspension precedes a debarment (see 9.406-4(a)(1)(iii) and (a)(2)).
