
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 10 - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1019 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1019.2 - Policies
###### 1019.202-70 The Treasury Mentor Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program.
####### Incentives for contractor participation.

(e)(1) Under the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(E), Treasury is authorized to provide appropriate incentives in negotiated contractual actions to encourage subcontracting opportunities consistent with the efficient and economical performance of the contract. Proposed mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; efforts will be considered during the evaluation of such negotiated, competitive offers. Contracting Officers may provide, as an incentive, a bonus score, not to exceed 5% of the relative importance assigned to the non-price factors. If this incentive is used, the Contracting Officer shall include language in the solicitation indicating that this adjustment may occur.

(2) Before awarding a contract that requires a subcontracting plan, the existence of a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; arrangement, and performance (if any) under such an existing arrangement, will be considered by the Contracting Officer in:

(i) Evaluating the quality of a proposed subcontracting plan under FAR 19.705-4; and,

(ii) Evaluating the contractor compliance with the subcontracting plans submitted in previous contracts as a factor in determining contractor responsibility under FAR 19.705-5(a)(1).

(3) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) Mentoring Award is a non-monetary award that will be presented (annually on a fiscal year basis or as often as is appropriate) to the mentoring firm providing the most effective developmental support of a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;. The Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program Manager will recommend an award winner to the Director, OSDBU.

(f) [Reserved]
