
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 10 - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1019 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1019.2 - Policies
###### 1019.202-70 The Treasury Mentor Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program.
####### Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms.

(h)(1) For selection as a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;, a firm must be:

(i) A small business, women-owned small business, small disadvantaged business, small business owned and controlled by veteran or service disabled veteran, or qualified HUBZone small business, or a qualified 8(a) concern;

(ii) Qualified as a small business under the NAICS code for the services or supplies to be provided by the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; under its subcontract to the mentor; and

(iii) Eligible for award of Government contracts.

(2) Except small disadvantaged businesses and qualified HUBZone small business firms, a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm may self-certify to a mentor firm that it meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. Mentors may rely in good faith on written representations by potential prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s that they meet the specified eligibility requirements. The h(1)(i), small disadvantaged business, or qualified HUBZone small business status eligibility and documentation requirements are determined according to FAR 19.304 and 19.1303, respectively.

(3) Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s may not have multiple mentors unless approved, in writing, by the Director, OSDBU. Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s participating in other agency mentor prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; programs in addition to the Treasury Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program should maintain a system for preparing separate reports of mentoring activity for each agency's program.
