
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 10 - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1019 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1019.2 - Policies
###### 1019.202-70 The Treasury Mentor Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program.
####### OSDBU review and approval process of agreement.

(k)(1) OSDBU will review the information specified in 1019.202-70(l). The OSDBU review will be completed no later than 30 calendar days after receipt.

(2) Upon completion of the review, the mentor may implement the developmental assistance program.

(3) An approved agreement will be incorporated into the mentor firm's contract(s) with Treasury.

(4) If OSDBU disapproves the agreement, the mentor may provide additional information for reconsideration. Upon finding deficiencies that OSDBU considers correctable, OSDBU will notify the mentor and provide a list of defects. Any additional information or corrections requested will be provided within 30 calendar days. The review of any supplemental material will be completed within 30 calendar days after receipt by OSDBU. When submission of additional data is required during a proposal evaluation for a new contract award, shorter timeframes for submission, review and re-evaluation for approval may be authorized by OSDBU.

(5) The agreement defines the relationship between the mentor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms only. The agreement itself does not create any privity of contract between the mentor or prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; and Treasury.
