
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 10 - Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1019 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1019.2 - Policies
###### 1019.202-70 The Treasury Mentor Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program.
####### Obligation.

(n)(1) Mentor or prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms may voluntarily withdraw from the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program. However, such withdrawal shall not excuse the contractor from compliance with contract requirements.

(2) At the conclusion of each year in the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program, the contractor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must formally brief the Department of the Treasury team regarding program accomplishments as they pertain to the approved agreement. Individual briefings may be conducted, at the request of either party. Treasury will consider the following:

(i) Specific actions taken by the mentor, during the evaluation period, to increase the participation of prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;s as suppliers to the Federal government and to commercial entities;

(ii) Specific actions taken by the mentor, during the evaluation period, to develop the technical and corporate administrative expertise of a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; as defined in the agreement;

(iii) To what extent the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; has met the developmental objectives in the agreement; and

(iv) To what extent the mentor firm's participation in the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program resulted in the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; receiving contract(s) and subcontract(s) from private firms and agencies other than the Department of the Treasury.

(v) Mentor and prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms must submit an evaluation to OSDBU at the conclusion of the mutually agreed upon program period, the conclusion of the contract, or the voluntary withdrawal by either party from the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program, whichever comes first.

(vi) Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms shall submit a post completion report 24 months after exiting the Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program. The post completion report will assist the Department of the Treasury in assessing the progress of Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms upon completion of the program.

(o) [Reserved]
