
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1209 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1209.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1209.406-3 Procedures.
####### Debarring official's decision.

(d)(1) If DOT does not receive a reply from the contractor within 30 calendar days after sending the notice of proposed debarment, the SDC shall prepare a recommendation in conjunction with the cognizant contracting officer, and refer the case to the SDO for a decision on whether to debar based on the information available. If DOT receives a reply from the contractor within 30 calendar days after sending the notice of proposed debarment, the SDC in conjunction with the cognizant contracting officer shall consider the information in the reply before the SDC makes their recommendation to the SDO.

(2) The SDO reviews submittals and case documents, and acts in accordance with DOT Order 4200.5G and the General DOT Guidelines for Suspension and Debarment, paragraph 12c.

(i) The SDO, upon the request of the contractor proposed for debarment, shall, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the SDO to present information or argument, in person or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. This information submitted by a contractor proposed for debarment is known as a Presentation of Matters in Opposition as set forth in DOT Order 4200.5G. DOT shall conduct the proceeding in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript. The SDO may use flexible procedures to allow a contractor to present matters in opposition via telephone or internet. If so, the debarring official should change the notice in paragraph (c) of this section to include those flexible procedures.

(ii) If the SDO finds the contractor's or individual's submission in opposition to the proposed debarment raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment and the debarment action is not based on a conviction or civil judgment, the SDC shall submit to the SDO the information establishing the dispute of material facts. If the SDO agrees there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the SDO shall conduct a fact-finding proceeding or shall refer the dispute to a designee for resolution pursuant to 1209.470. The SDC shall provide the contractor or individual the disputed material fact(s).

(iii) If the proposed debarment action is based on a conviction or civil judgment, or if there are no disputes over material facts, or if any disputes over material facts have been resolved pursuant to 1209.470, the SDO shall make a decision on the basis of all information available including any written findings of fact submitted by the designated fact finder, and oral or written arguments presented or submitted to the SDC by the contractor.
