
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1209 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1209.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1209.406-3 Procedures.
####### Notice of proposal to debar.

(c)DOT shall send the notice of proposed debarment to the last known address of the individual or contractor, the individual or contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other means that allows for confirmation of delivery to include by mail, to the last known street address, to the last known facsimile numbers, or to the last known email address. In the case of a contractor, DOT may send the notice of proposed debarment to the contractor, any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture; to the contractor's identified counsel for purposes of administrative proceedings; or to the contractor's agent for the service of process. If sent by email, it shall be sent to the last known email addresses for all three, if known. Additionally, for each specifically named affiliate, the notice shall be sent to the affiliate itself, the affiliate's identified counsel for purposes of the administrative proceedings, or the affiliate's agency for service of process. If sent by email, it shall be sent to the last known email addresses for all three, if known. The SDO shall also ensure that the appropriate parties are listed as excluded in the System for Award Management (SAM) in accordance with FAR 9.404.
