
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1209 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1209.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1209.406-3 Procedures.
####### Investigation and referral.,see

(a)Any individual may submit a referral to debar an individual or contractor to the cognizant SDO (the debarring official) (1209.403). The referral for debarment shall be supported with evidence of a cause for debarment listed in FAR 9.406-2 and this subpart. The contracting officer shall promptly report a proposed debarment action directly to the SDO. Upon review by the SDO, if the matter involves possible criminal or fraudulent activities, the SDO shall also refer the matter to the DOT Office of Inspector General to ensure coordination of appropriate activity. The report shall contain the following information:

(1) The DOT official OA code to identify the OA taking action is as follows: DOT (general) (DOT-OST); Federal Aviation Administration (DOT-FAA); Federal Highway Administration (DOT-FHWA); Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (DOT-FMCSA); Federal Railroad Administration (DOT-FRA); Federal Transit Administration (DOT-FTA); Maritime Administration (DOT-MARAD); National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (DOT-NHTSA); Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (DOT-PHMSA); Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology (OST-R); and Great Lakes St. Lawrence Development Corporation (GLS).

(2) Name, address, and telephone number for the point of contact for the activity making the report.

(3) Name and address of the contractor.

(4) Names and addresses of the members of the board, principal officers, partners, owners, and managers.

(5) Names and addresses of all known affiliates, subsidiaries, or parent firms, and the nature of the business relationship.

(6) For each contract affected by the conduct being reported-

(i) The contract number;

(ii) Description of supplies or services;

(iii) The amount;

(iv) The percentage of completion;

(v) The amount paid to the contractor;

(vi) Whether the contract is assigned under the Assignment of Claims Act and, if so, to whom; and

(vii) The amount due to the contractor.

(7) For any other contracts outstanding with the contractor or any of its affiliates-

(i) The contract number(s);

(ii) The amount(s);

(iii) The amounts paid to the contractor;

(iv) Whether the contract(s) is assigned under the Assignment of Claims Act and, if so, to whom; and

(v) The amount(s) due the contractor.

(8) A complete summary of all pertinent evidence and the status of any legal proceedings involving the contractor.

(9) An estimate of any damages sustained by the Government as a result of the contractor's action (explain how the estimate was calculated).

(10) The comments and recommendations of the contracting officer and each higher-level contracting review authority regarding-

(i) Whether to suspend or debar the contractor;

(ii) Whether to apply limitations to the suspension or debarment;

(iii) The period of any recommended debarment; and

(iv) Whether to continue any current contracts with the contractor (explain why a recommendation regarding current contract is not included).

(11) When appropriate, as an enclosure to the report-

(i) A copy or extracts of each pertinent contract;

(ii) Witness statements or affidavits;

(iii) Copies of investigative reports;

(iv) Certified copies of indictments, judgments, and sentencing actions; and

(v) Any other appropriate exhibits or documents.
