
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1209 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1209.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1209.407-3 Procedures.
####### Notice of suspension.

(c)DOT shall send the notice of suspension to the last known address of the individual or contractor, the individual or contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other means that allows for confirmation of delivery to include by mail, to the last known street address, to the last known facsimile numbers, or to the last known email address. In the case of a contractor, DOT may send the notice of suspension to the contractor, any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture; to the contractor's identified counsel for purposes of administrative proceedings; or to the contractor's agent for the service of process. If sent by email, it shall be sent to the last known email addresses for all three, if known. Additionally, for each specifically named affiliate, the notice shall be sent to the affiliate itself, the affiliate's identified counsel for purposes of the administrative proceedings, or the affiliate's agency for service of process. If sent by email, it shall be sent to the last known email addresses for all three, if known. The SDO shall also ensure that the appropriate parties are listed as excluded in SAM in accordance with FAR 9.404. After reviewing the SDC's report, and any additional information received in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the SDO shall prepare and coordinate with legal counsel a written notice of suspension.

(5) The SDO, upon the request of the contractor suspended, shall, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the SDO to present information or argument, in person or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. DOT shall conduct the proceeding in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript.

(6)(i) If the SDC finds the contractor's or individual's submission in opposition to the suspension raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, or for the purposes of FAR 9.407-3(b)(2), in actions not based on an indictment, the SDC shall submit to the SDO the information establishing the dispute of material facts. If the SDO agrees there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the SDO shall conduct a fact-finding proceeding or refer the dispute to a designee for resolution pursuant to 1209.470. The SDC shall provide the contractor or individual the information that established the dispute of material fact(s) in advance of the fact-finding proceeding, in the event the contractor would like to add to the facts prior to the decision of the SDO.

(ii) If the suspension is based on a conviction or civil judgment, or if there are no disputes over material facts, or if any disputes over material facts have been resolved pursuant to 1209.470, the SDO shall make a decision on the basis of all information available including any written findings of fact submitted by the designated fact finder, and oral or written arguments presented or submitted by the contractor. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceeding will be conducted in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript.
