
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1219 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1219.70 - DOT Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program
###### 1219.7000 General.
####### https://www.transportation.gov/osdbu/procurement-assistance/mentor-protege-pilot-program.

(a) The Small Business Administration provides general oversight to Federal mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; programs. However, DOT has its own program tailored to assist small business concerns in the transportation industry to enhance their capability to compete for Federal procurement opportunities. The program is administered by the DOT Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) at

(b) Small business concerns and large DOT prime contractors are encouraged to participate in the Department's Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program. Mentor firms provide eligible small business Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms with developmental assistance to enhance their business capabilities and ability to obtain Federal contracts.

(c) Mentor firms are eligible small businesses and large DOT prime contractors or other socioeconomic firms capable of providing developmental assistance. Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms are small businesses as defined in 13 CFR part 121.

(d) Developmental assistance is technical, managerial, financial, and other mutually beneficial assistance that assists Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms. The costs for developmental assistance will not be reimbursed to the Mentor firm.

(e) Mentor and Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms shall submit an evaluation of the overall experience in the program to OSDBU at the conclusion of the agreement or the voluntary withdrawal by either party from the program, whichever occurs first. At the end of each year, the Mentor and Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms will submit a report regarding program accomplishments under their agreement.

(f) Mentor or Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms shall notify OSDBU in writing, at least 30 calendar days in advance of the effective date of the firm's withdrawal from the program.
