
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1228 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 1228.3 - Insurance
###### 1228.306-70 Contracts for lease of aircraft.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clauses at 1252.228-70, Loss of or Damage to Leased Aircraft; 1252.228-71, Fair Market Value of Aircraft; and 1252.228-72, Risk and Indemnities, unless otherwise indicated by the specific instructions for their use, in any contract for the lease of aircraft (including aircraft used in out-service flight training), except in the following circumstances-

(1) When the hourly rental rate does not exceed $250 and the total rental cost for any single transaction is not in excess of $2,500;

(2) When the cost of hull insurance does not exceed 10 percent of the contract rate; or

(3) When the lessor's insurer does not grant a credit for uninsured hours, thereby preventing the lessor from granting the same to the Government.

(b) As codified, 49 U.S.C. 44112, as amended, provides that an aircraft lessor under a lease of 30 days or more is not liable for injury or death of persons, or damage or loss of property, unless the aircraft is in the actual possession or control of the lessor and the damage occurs because of-

(1) The aircraft, engine, or propeller; or

(2) The flight of, or an object falling from, the aircraft, engine, or propeller.

(c) On short-term or intermittent-use leases, however, the owner may be liable for damage caused by operation of the aircraft. It is usual for the aircraft owner to retain insurance covering this liability during the term of such lease. Such insurance can, often for little or no increase in premium, be made to cover the Government's exposure to liability as well. To take advantage of this coverage, the Risks and Indemnities clause at 1252.228-72, prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be used.

(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1252.228-72, Risk and Indemnities, in any contract for out-service flight training or for the lease of aircraft when the Government will have exclusive use of the aircraft for a period of less than thirty days.

(e) During the performance of a contract for out-service flight training for DOT, whether the instruction to DOT personnel is in leased, contractor-provided, or Government-provided aircraft, contractor personnel shall always, during the entirety of the course of training and operation of the aircraft, remain in command of the aircraft. At no time shall Government personnel or other personnel be permitted to take command of the aircraft. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1252.228-73, Command of Aircraft, in any solicitation and contract for out-service flight training, whether performed utilizing DOT-leased aircraft, contractor-provided aircraft, or Government-provided aircraft.
