
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 1227.3 - Patent Rights Under Government Contracts
###### 1227.304-4 Appeals.

(b) Contractors may appeal agency actions listed at FAR 27.304-4(a)(1), (3), and (4) to the cognizant Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA). Contracting officers shall coordinate actions under this section with the legal counsel of the responsible office. The following procedures apply:

(1) Actions must be appealed within 30 days of receipt of the written statement issued by DOT required by FAR 27.304-4(a). The contractor must present all pertinent arguments in the appeal along with documentary evidence, if any.

(2) The HCA shall issue a determination within 45 days from the date the contractor's appeal is received.

(c) Contractor appeal of decisions rendered under FAR 27.304-4(a)(2) are subject to the following requirements:

(1) Actions must be appealed within 30 days of receipt of the written statement required by FAR 27.304-4(a). The contractor must present all pertinent arguments in the appeal along with documentary evidence, if any.

(2) The HCA may hold an informal hearing if deemed appropriate or at the request of the contractor. The informal hearing shall be held after all fact-finding is completed.

(i) If a hearing is held, DOT shall provide for a transcribed record of the hearing unless transcription is waived as provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. A copy of the transcript shall be available to the contractor at cost.

(ii) Transcription of the hearing may be waived by agreement of the parties.

(3) The HCA shall designate an impartial fact-finding official. The official conducting the fact-finding shall prepare findings of fact and transmit them to the HCA promptly after the conclusion of the fact-finding proceeding along with a recommended determination.
