
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 1227.3 - Patent Rights Under Government Contracts
###### 1227.304-4 Appeals.
####### see

(i) A copy of the findings of fact shall be sent to the contractor (assignee or exclusive licensee) by mail, to the last known street address, the last known facsimile number, or the last known email address and to the contractor's identified counsel. The contractor (assignee or exclusive licensee) and agency representatives will be given 30 days to submit written arguments to the HCA; and, upon request by the contractor, oral arguments will be held before the HCA as part of an informal hearing. The HCA will make the final determination as to whether the initial agency action was appropriate under the relevant laws and procedures (1227.304-4(c)).

(ii) Any portion of the informal hearing that involves testimony or evidence shall be closed to the public. Agencies shall not disclose any such information obtained during the appeal to persons outside the Government except when such release is authorized by the contractor (assignee or licensee).

(4) The HCA's final determination shall be based on the findings of facts, together with any other information and written or oral arguments submitted by the contractor (assignee or exclusive licensee) and agency representatives, and any other information in the administrative record. The HCA may reject only those facts that have been found clearly erroneous and must explicitly state the rejection and the basis for the contrary finding. The HCA shall provide the contractor (assignee or exclusive licensee) a written determination by certified or registered mail no later than 90 days after fact-finding is completed or no later than 90 days after oral arguments, whichever is later.
