
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 12 - Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1232 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 1232.9 - Prompt Payment
###### 1232.905-70 Payment documentation and process - form of invoice.

(a) Under fixed-price contracts, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to submit an invoice or voucher on any form or format meeting FAR 32.905(b) requirements.

(b) Under other than fixed-price contracts, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to submit the Standard Form (SF) 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, and the SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet), to request payments. The forms must be completed as required by figure 1 to this section, Instructions for Completing the SF 1034, and figure 2 to this section, Instructions for Completing the SF 1035.

The SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, shall be completed in accordance with the below instructions. The numbered items correspond to the entries on the form.

The SF 1035, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal (Continuation Sheet), shall be completed in accordance with the below instructions.

1. Use the same basic instructions for the SF 1035 as used for the SF 1034. Ensure that the contract and, if applicable, order number, are shown on each continuation sheet. Use as many sheets as necessary to show the information required by the contract, contracting officer, or responsible audit agency; however, if more than one sheet of SF 1035 is used, each sheet shall be in numerical sequence.

2. The following items are generally entered below the line with Number and Date of Order; Date of Delivery or Service; Articles or Services; Quantity; Unit Price; and Amount (but do not necessarily tie to these captions).

3. Description of data to be inserted as it applies to the contract or order number including the CLIN or SLIN.

a. Show, as applicable, the target or estimated costs, target or fixed-fee, and total contract value, as adjusted by any modifications to the contract or order. The FAR permits the contracting officer to withhold a percentage of fixed fee until a reserve is set aside in an amount that is considered necessary to protect the Government's interest.

b. Show the following costs and supporting data (as applicable) to the contract or order:
