
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 13 - Department of Commerce
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1309 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1309.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1309.406-3 Procedures.
####### Debarring official's decision.

(d)(1) For actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or when there is no authentic dispute over material facts, the debarring official's decision shall be based on all of the information in the administrative record plus any contractor-submitted data. If there is no suspension in effect, the decision shall be rendered within 30 working days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the contractor. The debarring official can extend this timeframe for good cause.

(2)(i) When necessary, written findings of fact shall be prepared as to disputed material facts. The debarring official will utilize the information in the written findings of fact, the data submitted by the contractor plus any other information in the administrative record to develop the decision.

(ii) While the debarring official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact, the debarring official can disregard any such findings in whole or in part upon a determination that they are clearly erroneous.

(iii) After the conclusion of proceedings with respect to disputed facts, the debarring official will make a decision.

(3) When the proposed debarment is not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the reason for debarment must be based on a preponderance of the evidence.
