
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 13 - Department of Commerce
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1309 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1309.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1309.407-3 Procedures.
####### Suspending official's decision.

(d)(1) For actions based upon an indictment, when there is no authentic dispute over material facts, in which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of Department of Justice advice, the suspending official's decision shall be based on all of the information in the administrative record plus any contractor-submitted data.

(2)(i) When necessary, written findings of fact shall be prepared as to the disputed material facts. The suspending official will utilize the information in the written findings of fact, the data submitted by the contractor plus any other information in the administrative record to develop the decision.

(ii) While the suspending official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact, the suspending official can disregard any such findings in whole or in part upon a determination that they are clearly erroneous.

(iii) After the conclusion of proceedings with respect to disputed facts, the suspending official will make a decision.

(3) The suspension may be modified or terminated by the suspending official. However such a decision shall be without prejudice to the subsequent imposition of:

(i) Suspension by any other agency; or

(ii) Debarment by any agency.

(4) The suspending official's decision shall be sent to the contractor and any affiliates involved, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested.

(e) Procurement counsel shall assist and advise the suspending official at each stage of the decision-making process.
