
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 9 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 9.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 9.407-3 Procedures.
####### Suspending official's decision.

(d)(1) In actions (i) based on an indictment, (ii) in which the contractor's submission does not raise a genuine dispute over material facts, or (iii) in which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of Department of Justice advice, the suspending official's decision shall be based on all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the contractor.

(2)(i) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary as to disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The suspending official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the contractor and any other information in the administrative record.

(ii) The suspending official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous.

(iii) The suspending official's decision shall be made after the conclusion of the proceedings with respect to disputed facts.

(3) The suspending official may modify or terminate the suspension or leave it in force (for example, see 9.406-4(c) for the reasons for reducing the period or extent of debarment). However, a decision to modify or terminate the suspension shall be without prejudice to the subsequent imposition of (i) suspension by any other agency or (ii) debarment by any agency.

(4) Prompt written notice of the suspending official's decision shall be sent to the contractor and any affiliates involved, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
