
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 14 - Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1409 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1409.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility
###### 1409.406-3 Procedures.
####### Decision-making process.

(c)(1) For debarment actions based upon a conviction, civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, consistent with FAR 9.406-3(d)(1), the Debarring Official shall make a decision on the basis of the information in the administrative record, including any contractor submissions. Where the proceeding includes an oral presentation of matters in opposition (PMIO) to the Debarring Official, the PMIO will be conducted in an informal business meeting format and tape recorded for the administrative record.

(2) For actions listed under FAR 9.406-3(b)(2), upon concluding from a contractor's information in response to the action notice that facts material to the existence of cause for debarment are genuinely in dispute, the Debarring Official may refer the disputed material facts to another official for fact-finding. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Debarment Program fact-finding procedures.

(i) The fact-finding proceeding will be transcribed. The fact-finding official will file the original copy of the transcript with the case record. The reporter's fees and other direct costs associated with the hearing shall be borne by the bureau or office initiating the debarment action, except in the case of actions initiated by the OIG. For actions initiated by the OIG, the costs will be borne by the bureau(s) and/or office(s) out of which the matter arose. A transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to the contractor as provided under FAR 9.406-3(b)(2)(ii).

(ii) Subject to the provisions of 43 CFR part 1, the contractor, and any specifically named affiliate, may be represented by counsel or any duly authorized representative. Witnesses may be called by either party. The proceedings shall be conducted expeditiously and in such a manner that each party will have a full opportunity to present all information considered pertinent to the proposed debarment. A transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to the contractor under the condition in FAR 9.406-3(b)(2)(ii).

(iii) The fact-finding official will prepare findings of fact, certify the entire hearing record and provide said findings and record to the Debarring Official. The fact-finding official shall not make any recommendations unless the Debarring Official has expressly requested such recommendations in writing. Following receipt of the findings of fact, the Debarring Official shall complete debarment proceedings and issue a written debarment decision.
