
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 10 - MARKET RESEARCH
##### 10.002 Procedures.

(a) Acquisitions begin with a description of the Government's needs stated in terms sufficient to allow conduct of market research.

(b) Market research is then conducted to determine if commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items are available to meet the Government's needs or could be modified to meet the Government's needs.

(1) The extent of market research will vary, depending on such factors as urgency, estimated dollar value, complexity, and past experience. The contracting officer may use market research conducted within 18 months before the award of any task or delivery order if the information is still current, accurate, and relevant. Market research involves obtaining information specific to the product or service being acquired and should include-

(i) Whether the Government's needs can be met by-

(A) Products or services of a type customarily available in the commercial marketplace;

(B) Products or services of a type customarily available in the commercial marketplace with modifications; or

(C) Products or services used exclusively for governmental purposes;

(ii) Customary practices regarding customizing, modifying or tailoring of products of services to meet customer needs and associated costs;

(iii) Customary practices, including warranty, buyer financing, discounts, contract type considering the nature and risk associated with the requirement, etc., under which commercial sales of the products or services are made;

(iv) The requirements of any laws and regulations unique to the item being acquired;

(v) The availability of items that contain recovered materials and items that are energy efficient;

(vi) The distribution and support capabilities of potential suppliers, including alternative arrangements and cost estimates; and

(vii) Whether the Government's needs can be met by small business concerns that will likely submit a competitive offer at fair market prices (see part 19).

(2) Techniques for conducting market research may include any or all of the following:

(i) Contacting knowledgeable individuals in Government and industry regarding market capabilities to meet requirements.

(ii) Reviewing the results of recent market research undertaken to meet similar or identical requirements.

(iii) Publishing formal requests for information in appropriate technical or scientific journals or business publications.
