
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 10 - MARKET RESEARCH
##### 10.002 Procedures.
###### https://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/

(iv) Querying the Governmentwide database of contracts and other procurement instruments intended for use by multiple agencies available atand other Government and commercial databases that provide information relevant to agency acquisitions.

(v) Participating in interactive, on-line communication among industry, acquisition personnel, and customers.

(vi) Obtaining source lists of similar items from other contracting activities or agencies, trade associations or other sources.

(vii) Reviewing catalogs and other generally available product literature published by manufacturers, distributors, and dealers or available on-line.

(viii) Conducting interchange meetings or holding presolicitation conferences to involve potential offerors early in the acquisition process.

(ix) Reviewing systems such as the System for Award Management, the Federal Procurement Data System, and the Small Business Administration's Dynamic Small Business Search.

(c) If market research indicates commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items might not be available to satisfy agency needs, agencies shall reevaluate the need in accordance with 10.001(a)(3)(ii) and determine whether the need can be restated to permit commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items to satisfy the agency's needs.

(d)(1) If market research establishes that the Government's need may be met by a type of product or service customarily available in the commercial marketplace that would meet the definition of a commercial product or commercial service at subpart 2.1, the contracting officer shall solicit and award any resultant contract using the policies and procedures in part 12.

(2) If market research establishes that the Government's need cannot be met by a type of item or service customarily available in the marketplace, part 12 shall not be used. When publication of the notice at 5.201 is required, the contracting officer shall include a notice to prospective offerors that the Government does not intend to use part 12 for the acquisition.

(e) The head of the agency shall document the results of market research in a manner appropriate to the size and complexity of the acquisition.
