
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 14 - Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1415 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 1415.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 1415.406-70 Department of the Interior price negotiation memorandum (PNM).
####### Procedures.

(c)When the CO prepares the memorandum prescribed in FAR 15.406-3, the following additional information shall be included to the extent it applies to the contract action. Information already contained in the contract file or in a previous PNM shall be referenced by location:

(1) A discussion of the reason(s) why sealed bidding is not appropriate as required by FAR 6.401 (or cross-reference the file location of the existing explanation);

(2) A memorandum identifying the type of contract used and why it was selected as required by FAR 16.103(d). The file location of any required determination and findings authorizing use of this type of contract (see Part 1416);

(3) A history of the contract action including: Whether the action was synopsized or the basis for exemption under FAR 5.202, and file location of the synopsis; consideration given to the use of set-asides and file location of DI-1886 (see Subpart 1419.2); solicitation issuance date, closing date for receipt of proposals and extensions; (iv) sources solicited (reference file location); late proposal or proposal modification information required by FAR 15.208; and the file location of "Justification for Other Than Full and Open Competition," if applicable.

(4) Evaluation of proposal(s), including: Evaluation factors used and weights (FAR 15.304); results of initial proposal evaluation (FAR 15.305); determination of competitive range (FAR 15.306); results of written or oral discussions conducted (FAR 15.306); discussion of final proposal revisions received (FAR 15.307) and results of final proposal evaluation; and basis for source selection. For formal source selection procedures (see 1415.303), information on the source selection plan, and the source selection decision including supporting documentation required by FAR 15.308.

(5) If cost or pricing data were not required, the cost or price analysis performed in accordance with FAR 15.404-1.

(6) If cost or pricing data were required, the cost analysis (FAR 15.404-1(c)) performed; and cost realism analysis (FAR 15.404-1(d)) and technical analysis (FAR 15.404-1(e)) performed, as applicable to the procurement.

(7) If an audit report was required (FAR 15.404-2), COs shall specifically describe actions taken in response to significant audit findings, including the monetary value and decisions made with regard to any of the audit's questioned costs; i.e., COs shall identify the value of the questioned costs, indicate whether they will allow or disallow them, and provide an explanation for their decisions. For purposes of this section, "significant audit finding" and "questioned cost" are defined as those findings and/or costs cited or questioned in an external audit because of their relationship to unallowable costs claimed, a failure to comply with regulations or the terms of the contract, mathematical errors, and/or the duplication of costs. Questions and/or disagreements between the CO, price analyst (if assigned) and cognizant auditor as to an audit report's interpretation or recommendations regarding "significant audit finding" and/or "questioned costs" shall be clarified or resolved and appropriately documented. If a disagreement cannot be resolved or agreement cannot be reached, the CO shall prepare a written statement in the PNM that discusses the issue(s) in question and supports a final decision on the matter.

(8) The basis for determining profit or fee as prescribed in FAR Subpart 15.404-4 and form DI-1920 (or file location).
