
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 14 - Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1427 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 1427.3 - Patent Rights Under Government Contracts.
###### 1427.304-1 General.
####### Exceptions.

(a)(1)The Associate Solicitor for the General Law Division shall issue a decision on the appeal of a small business concern or nonprofit organization of the use of exceptions under FAR 27.303(e)(1).

(2) If the Associate Solicitor for the General Law Division determines that the appeal notice raises a genuine dispute over the material facts, a fact-finding hearing shall be conducted by OHA. The hearing shall be conducted at a location convenient to the parties concerned as determined by the Director, OHA, and on a date and time stated. The contractor may be represented by counsel or any duly authorized representative. Witnesses may be called by either party. The proceedings shall be conducted expeditiously and in such a manner that each party will have a full opportunity to present all information considered pertinent to the determination. A transcribed record of the proceedings shall be made and shall be made available at cost to the contractor upon request, unless the requirement for the transcribed record is waived by mutual agreement of the contractor and OHA.

(3) OHA shall prepare written findings of fact and transmit them to the Associate Solicitor for the General Law Division.

(4) OHA may hear oral arguments after fact-finding provided that the contractor, its counsel or other duly authorized representative, is present in order to have the opportunity to make arguments and rebuttal. The Associate Solicitor for the General Law Division shall issue a decision.
