
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 14 - Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1433 - PROTESTS, DISPUTES, AND APPEALS
##### Subpart 1433.1 - Protests
###### 1433.104 Protests to GAO.
####### General procedure.

(a)(1) A protester shall furnish a copy of its complete protest simultaneously to the CO and the Assistant Solicitor, Acquisitions and Intellectual Property. Upon being telephonically advised by the GAO of the receipt of a protest, the SOL shall inform the appropriate contracting activity which shall immediately notify the CO. For protests concerning Federal Information Processing (FIP) acquisitions, the SOL shall also inform the Director, Office of Information Resources Management (PIR), who, in turn, shall notify the appropriate bureau Information Resources Management contact and GSA official. The CO shall prepare the protest report as required by FAR 33.104(a)(3).

(2) The SOL will furnish promptly GAO's written notice of the protest to the cognizant contracting activity which, in turn, shall promptly transmit copies to the CO. The CO shall begin notification as prescribed in FAR 33.104(a)(2). The notification letters shall contain a specified period of time for submission of comments and include instructions that any comments submitted to the GAO should also be submitted simultaneously to the CO and the Assistant Solicitor, Acquisitions and Intellectual Property. Copies of the CO's notification letters shall be sent concurrently to the Assistant Solicitor, Acquisitions and Intellectual Property.

(3)(i) The contracting activity shall have no more than 15 working days from the date of telephonic notification by the SOL to deliver the protest report to the Assistant Solicitor, Acquisitions and Intellectual Property. For reports involving use of the 10 working day express option, the SOL shall establish the report delivery date after consultation with the contracting activity.

(ii) If required, the SOL shall make the request for an extension in the report due date.

(iii) In addition to the requirements of FAR 33.104(a)(3), the report shall be appropriately titled and dated; shall cite the GAO file number; and shall be signed by the CO. Reports shall be prepared with the assistance of the local attorney-advisor of the SOL. A statement shall be included giving an estimate of the length of time an award may be delayed without significant expense or difficulty in performance. If appropriate, the report shall contain a statement regarding any urgency for the acquisition and the extent to which a delay in award may result in significant performance difficulties or additional expense to the Government. The contracting activity shall submit the CO's report to the Assistant Solicitor, Acquisitions and Intellectual Property, who will then submit it to GAO and provide a copy to each interested party who responded to the notification pursuant to FAR 33.104(a)(2).
