
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 14 - Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 1437 - SERVICE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 1437.1 - Service Contracts - General
###### 1437.103 Contracting officer responsibility.
####### Cost effectiveness.

(3)If the response to any of the following questions is negative, the agency may not have a valid requirement or not be obtaining the requirement in the most cost effective manner.

(i) Is the statement of work written so that it supports the need for a specific service?

(ii) Is the statement of work written so that it permits adequate evaluation of contractor versus in-house cost and performance?

(iii) Are the choices of contract type, quality assurance plan, competition strategy, or other related acquisition strategies and procedures in the acquisition plan appropriate to ensure good contractor performance to meet the user's needs?

(iv) If a cost reimbursement contract is contemplated, is the acquisition plan adequate to ensure that the contractor will have the incentive to control costs under the contract?

(v) Is the acquisition plan adequate to address the cost effectiveness of using contractor support (either long-term or short-term) versus in-house performance?

(vi) Is the cost estimate, or other supporting cost information, adequate to enable the contracting office to effectively determine whether costs are reasonable?

(vii) Is the statement of work adequate to describe the requirement in terms of what is to be performed as opposed to how the work is to be accomplished?

(viii) Is the acquisition plan adequate to ensure that there is proper consideration given to quality and best value?
