
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1501 - GENERAL
##### Subpart 1501.6 - Contracting Authority and Responsibilities
###### 1501.602-3 Ratification of unauthorized commitments.
####### Procedures.

(c)(1) The program office shall notify the cognizant contracting office by memorandum of the circumstances surrounding an unauthorized commitment. The notification shall include:

(i) All relevant documents and records;

(ii) Documentation of the necessity for the work and benefit derived by the Government;

(iii) A statement of the delivery status of the supplies or services associated with the unauthorized commitment;

(iv) A list of the procurement sources solicited (if any) and the rationale for the source selected;

(v) If only one source was solicited, a justification for other than full and open competition (JOFOC) as required by FAR 6.302, FAR 6.303, and 1506.303, or for simplified acquisition procedures exceeding the competition threshold in FAR 13.106, a sole source justification as required by 1513.170;

(vi) A statement of steps taken or proposed to prevent reoccurrence of any unauthorized commitment.

(2) The Division Director (or equivalent) of the responsible office shall approve the memorandum. If expenditure of funds is involved, the program office shall include a Procurement Request/Order, EPA Form 1900-8, with funding sufficient to cover the action. The appropriation data cited on the 1900-8 shall be valid for the period in which the unauthorized commitment was made.

(3) Upon receiving the notification, the Contracting Officer shall prepare a determination and findings regarding ratification of the unauthorized commitment for the ratifying official. The determination and findings shall include sufficient detail to support the recommended action. If ratification of the unauthorized commitment is recommended, the determination and findings shall include a determination that the price is fair and reasonable. To document the determination, additional information may be required from the Contractor. Concurrence by the Office of General Counsel is not mandatory, but shall be sought in difficult or unusual cases.

(4) The ratifying official may inform the Inspector General (IG) of the action by memorandum through the Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA). For ratification actions exceeding the small purchase limitation, the ratifying official shall submit a memorandum to the Assistant Administrator for Administration and Resources Management through the HCA for transmittal to the Assistant, Associate, or Regional Administrator (or equivalent level) of the person responsible for the unauthorized commitment. This memorandum should contain a brief description of the circumstances surrounding the unauthorized commitment, recommend corrective action, and include a copy of any memorandum sent to the IG. Submission of a memorandum to the appropriate Assistant, Associate, or Regional Administrator for unauthorized commitments at or below the small purchase limitation is optional and may be accomplished at the discretion of the ratifying official.
