
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 1509 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 1509.4 - Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility
###### 1509.406-3 Procedures.
####### HCA responsibility.

(3)Upon receipt of a report of a suspected debarment situation, the HCA shall take the following actions:

(i) Notify the Director, Suspension and Debarment Division, that investigation of a potential debarment has been initiated.

(ii) Review the reported information.

(iii) Investigate as necessary to verify or develop additional information.

(iv) Refer the matter through the Suspension and Debarment Division to the Debarring Official for consideration of debarment; request that the Suspension and Debarment Division evaluate the information and, if appropriate, refer the matter to the Debarring Official for consideration of debarment; or recommend to the Suspension and Debarment Division that the matter be closed without further action because the facts do not warrant debarment.

(v) Obtain legal counsel's opinion on referrals or recommendations made to the Debarring Official.

(vi) Notify EPA Contracting Officers of those Contractors who are ineligible for solicitation, award, or subcontracting but who do not appear on the GSA Consolidated List; e.g., those who are ineligible based on a settlement reached by the Debarring Official under which the Contractor has agreed to voluntarily exclude itself from participation in Government contracting/subcontracting for a specified period or because of a Notice of Proposal to Debar.
