
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1515 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 1515.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 1515.404-471 EPA structured approach for developing profit or fee objectives.
####### Profit/fee factors.

(b)(1)The factors set forth in this paragraph, and the weighted ranges listed after each factor, shall be used in all instances where the profit/fee is negotiated.

(2) The contracting officer shall first measure the "Contractor's Input to Total Performance" by the assignment of a profit percentage within the designated weight ranges to each element of contract cost. Such costs are multiplied by the specific percentages to arrive at a specific dollar profit or fee.

(3) The amount calculated for facilities capital cost of money (FCCM) shall not be included as part of the cost base for computation of profit or fee. The profit or fee objective shall be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of facilities capital cost of money allowed. A complete discussion of the determination of facilities capital cost of money and its application and administration is set forth in FAR 31.205-10, and the appendix to the FAR (see 48 CFR 9904.414).

(4) After computing a total dollar profit or fee for the Contractor's Input to Total Performance, the contracting officer shall calculate the specific profit dollars assigned for cost risk and performance. This is accomplished by multiplying the total Government cost objective, exclusive of any FCCM, by the specific weight assigned to cost risk and performance. The contracting officer shall then determine the profit or fee objective by adding the total profit dollars for the Contractor's Input to Total Performance to the specific dollar profits assigned to cost risk and performance. The contracting officer shall use EPA Form 1900-2 in hardcopy or electronic copy equivalent to facilitate the calculation of the profit or fee objective.

(5) The weight factors discussed in this section are designed for arriving at profit or fee objectives for other than nonprofit and not-for-profit organizations. Nonprofit and not-for-profit organizations are addressed as follows:

(i) Nonprofit and not-for-profit organizations are defined as those business entities organized and operated:

(A) Exclusively for charitable, scientific, or educational purposes;

(B) Where no part of the net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual;

(C) Where no substantial part of the activities is for propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation or participating in any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office; and

(D) Which are exempt from Federal income taxation under Section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code. (26 U.S.C.)

(ii) For contracts with nonprofit and not-for-profit organizations where fees are involved, special factor of -3 percent shall be assigned in all cases.
