
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1515 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 1515.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 1515.404-471 EPA structured approach for developing profit or fee objectives.
####### Direct material (purchased parts and other material).

(i)(A) Analysis of these cost items shall include an evaluation of the managerial and technical effort necessary to obtain the required material. This evaluation shall include consideration of the number of orders and suppliers, and whether established sources are available or new sources must be developed. The contracting officer shall also determine whether the contractor will, for example, obtain the materials by routine orders or readily available supplies (particularly those of substantial value in relation to the total contract costs), or by detailed subcontracts for which the prime contractor will be required to develop complex specifications involving creative design.

(B) Consideration should be given to the managerial and technical efforts necessary for the prime contractor to administer subcontracts, and to select subcontractors, including efforts to break out subcontracts from sole sources, through the introduction of competition.

(C) Recognized costs proposed as direct material costs such as scrap charges shall be treated as material for profit evaluation.

(D) If intracompany transfers are accepted at price, in accordance with FAR 31.205-26(e), they should be excluded from the profit or fee computation. Other intracompany transfers shall be evaluated by individual components of cost, i.e., material, labor, and overhead.
