
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1517 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 1517.2 - Options
###### 1517.208 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) The Contracting Officer shall insert the provision at 48 CFR 1552.217-70, Evaluation of Contract Options, in solicitations containing options.

(b) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-71, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract-Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.

(c) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-72, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract-Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.

(d) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-73, Option for Increased Quantity-Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.

(e) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-74, Option for Increased Quantity-Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.

(f) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-75, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract-Time and Materials or Labor Hour Contract, when applicable.

(g) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-76, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract-Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity Contract, when applicable.

(h) The Contracting officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-77, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract-Fixed Price, when applicable.
