
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 15 - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 1535 - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONTRACTING
##### 1535.007-70 Contract clauses.
###### et seq.

(c) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.235-76, Treatment of Confidential Business Information (TSCA), in solicitations and contracts when the Contracting Officer has determined that in the performance of the contract, EPA may furnish the contractor with confidential business information obtained from third parties under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601). EPA regulations on confidentiality of business information in 40 CFR part 2, subpart B require that the contractor agree to the clause entitled "Treatment of Confidential Business Information" before any confidential business information may be furnished to the contractor.

(d) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.235-77, Data Security for Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Confidential Business Information, when the contract involves access to confidential business information related to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, and the Treatment of Confidential Business Information clause (48 CFR 1552.235-71) and the Screening Business Information for Claims of Confidentiality clause (48 CFR 1552.235-70) are included.

(e) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.235-78, Data Security for Toxic Substances Control Act Confidential Business Information, when the contract involves access to confidential business information related to the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Treatment of Confidential Business Information clause (48 CFR 1552.235-76) and Screening Business Information for Claims of Confidentiality clause (48 CFR 1552.235-70) are included.

(f) Contracting Officers shall insert the clause 48 CFR 1552.235-79, Release of Contractor Confidential Business Information, in all solicitations and contracts in order to authorize the Agency to release confidential business information under certain circumstances.

(g) Contracting officers shall insert the clause at 1552.235-80, Access to Confidential Business Information (CBI), in all types of contracts when it is possible that it will be necessary for the contractor to have access to CBI during the performance of tasks required under the contract.

(h) Contracting officers shall insert 48 CFR 1552.235-82-"Institutional Oversight of Life Sciences Dual Use Research of Concern" into all solicitations containing 48 CFR 1552.235-81 and in existing contracts that are bilaterally modified at the request of an EPA funding/requesting office in accordance with EPA Order 1000.19.
