
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 16 - Office of Personnel Management Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1615 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 1615.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 1615.402 Pricing policy.
####### Similarly sized subscriber group (SSSG) methodology.

(i)(A) For contracts with 1,500 or more enrollee contracts for which the FEHB Program premiums for the contract term will be at or above the threshold at FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), OPM will require the carrier to provide the data and methodology used to determine the FEHB Program rates. OPM will also require the data and methodology used to determine the rates for the carrier's SSSG. The carrier will provide cost or pricing data required by OPM in its rate instructions for the applicable contract period. OPM will evaluate the data to ensure that the rate is reasonable and consistent with the requirements in this chapter. If necessary, OPM may require the carrier to provide additional documentation.

(B) Contracts will be subject to a downward price adjustment if OPM determines that the Federal group was charged more than it would have been charged using a methodology consistent with that used for the SSSG. Such adjustments will be based on the rate determined by using the methodology (including discounts) the carrier used for the SSSG.

(C) FEHB Program community-rated carriers will comply with SSSG criteria provided by OPM in the rate instructions for the applicable contract period.
