
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 16 - Office of Personnel Management Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1615 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 1615.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 1615.406-2 Certificates of accurate cost or pricing data for community rated carriers.

(a) The contracting officer will require a carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in 1615.402(c)(2) or (3) to execute one or more of the Certificates contained in this section. A carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in 1615.402(c)(2) will complete the appropriate Certificate(s) and keep such on file at the carrier's place of business in accordance with 1652.204-70. A carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in 1615.402(c)(3) will complete and submit the appropriate certificate(s) to OPM.

(b) A carrier using the SSSG methodology described in 1615.402(c)(3)(i) will submit the "Certificate of Accurate Cost or Pricing Data for Community-Rated Carriers (SSSG methodology)" along with its rate reconciliation during the first quarter of the applicable contract year. A carrier using the MLR methodology described in 1615.402(c)(3)(ii) will submit two forms. The "Certificate of Accurate Cost or Pricing Data for Community-Rated Carriers (MLR methodology)" will be submitted along with the rate reconciliation during the first quarter of the applicable contract year. The "Certificate of Accurate MLR Calculation" will be submitted when the carrier submits its FEHB-specific MLR calculation to OPM.
