
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 16 - Office of Personnel Management Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1632 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 1632.1 - General
###### 1632.170 Recurring premium payments to carriers.
####### Recurring payments to carriers of community-rated plans.

(a)(1)OPM will pay to carriers of community-rated plans the premium payments received for the plan less the amounts credited to the contingency and administrative reserves, amounts assessed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and amounts due for other contractual obligations. Premium payments will be due and payable not later than 30 days after receipt by the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Fund.

(2) The difference between one percent and the performance based percentage of the contract price described at 1615.404-4 will be multiplied by the carrier's subscription income for the year of performance and the resulting amount (performance adjustment) will be withheld from the net-to-carrier premium disbursement during the first quarter of the following contract period unless an alternative payment arrangement is made with the carrier's Contracting Officer. Amounts withheld from a community rated plan's premium disbursement will be deposited into the plan's Contingency Reserve.

(3) Any subsidization penalty levied against a community rated plan as outlined in 48 CFR 1615.402(c)(3)(ii)(B) must be paid within 60 days from notification. If payment is not received within the 60 day period, OPM will withhold from the community rated carriers the periodic premium payment payable until fully recovered. OPM will deposit the withheld funds in the subsidization penalty reserve described in 5 CFR 890.503(c)(6).
