
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1816 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 1816.4 - Incentive Contracts
###### 1816.402-270 NASA technical performance incentives.
####### e.g.,

(b) When a performance incentive is used, it shall be structured to be both positive and negative based on performance after acceptance, unless the contract type requires complete contractor liability for product performance (fixed price). In this latter case, a negative incentive is not required. In structuring the incentives, the contract shall establish a standard level of performance based on the salient performance requirement. This standard performance level is normally the contract's target level of performance. No performance incentive amount is earned at this standard performance level. Discrete units of measurement based on the same performance parameter shall be identified for performance above and, when a negative incentive is used, below the standard. Specific incentive amounts shall be associated with each performance level from maximum beneficial performance (maximum positive incentive) to, when a negative incentive is included, minimal beneficial performance or total failure (maximum negative incentive). The relationship between any given incentive, either positive or negative, and its associated unit of measurement should reflect the value to the Government of that level of performance. The contractor should not be rewarded for above-standard performance levels that are of no benefit to the Government.

(c) The final calculation of the performance incentive shall be done when performance, as defined in the contract, ceases or when the maximum positive incentive is reached. When performance ceases below the standard established in the contract and a negative incentive is included, the Government shall calculate the amount due and the contractor shall pay the Government that amount. Once performance exceeds the standard, the contractor may request payment of the incentive amount associated with a given level of performance, provided that such payments shall not be more frequent than monthly. When performance ceases above the standard level of performance, or when the maximum positive incentive is reached, the Government shall calculate the final performance incentive earned and unpaid and promptly remit it to the contractor.
