
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 1816 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 1816.3 - Cost-Reimbursement Contracts
###### 1816.307-70 NASA contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.216-73, Estimated Cost and Cost Sharing, in each contract in which costs are shared by the contractor pursuant to 1816.303-70.

(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause substantially as stated at 1852.216-74, Estimated Cost and Fixed Fee, in cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.

(c) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 1852.216-75, Payment of Fixed Fee, in cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.

(d) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 1852.216-81, Estimated Cost, in cost-no-fee contracts that are not cost sharing or facilities contracts.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) When FAR clause 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, is included in the contract, as prescribed at FAR 16.307(a), the contracting officer should include the clause at 1852.216-89, Assignment and Release Forms.

(g) As required by section 827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239), use the clause at 1852.216-90, Allowability of Costs Incurred in Connection With a Whistleblower Proceeding-

(1) In task orders entered pursuant to contracts awarded before September 30, 2013, that include the clause at FAR 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment; and

(2) In contracts awarded before September 30, 2013, that-

(i) Include the clause at FAR 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment; and

(ii) Are modified to include the clause at 1852.203-71, Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights, dated June 2013 or later.
