
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 1819 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 1819.72 - NASA Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program
###### 1819.7212 Reporting requirements.

(a) Mentors must report on the progress made under active mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreements semiannually throughout the term of the agreement.

(b) Reports are due 30 days after the end of each six-month period of performance commencing with the start of the agreement.

(c) Each semiannual report must include the following data on performance under the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement:

(1) Expenditures by the mentor.

(2) The number and dollar value of subcontracts awarded to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;.

(3) Description of developmental assistance provided, including milestones achieved.

(4) Impact of the agreement in terms of capabilities enhanced, certifications received, and/or technology transferred.

(d) Semiannually, the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must provide an independently developed progress report using the semiannual report template, on the progress made during the prior six months by the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; in employment, revenues, and participation in NASA contracts during each year of the Program participation term. The Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; must also provide an additional post-agreement report for each of the two years following the expiration of the Program participation term.

(e) The prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; semiannual report required by paragraph (d) must be submitted separately from the Mentor's semiannual report submission.

(f) Reports for all agreements must be submitted to the NASA OSBP Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program Manager, the mentor's cognizant administrative contracting officer, and their cognizant center small business specialist.
