
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1827 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 1827.3 - Patent Rights Under Government Contracts
###### 1827.303 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 1852.227-84, Patent Rights Clauses, in solicitations for experimental, developmental, or research work to be performed in the United States when the eventual awardee may be a small business or a nonprofit organization.

(b)(1) When the clause at FAR 52.227-11 is included in a solicitation or contract, it shall be modified as set forth at 1852.227-11.

(i) To qualify for the clause at FAR 52.227-11, a prospective contractor shall be required to represent itself as either a small business firm or a nonprofit organization. If the contracting officer has reason to question the size or nonprofit status of the prospective contractor, the contracting officer will follow the procedures at FAR 27.304-1(a).

(iii) The contracting officer shall complete paragraph (j) of the clause at FAR 52.227-11 with the following: Communications and information submissions required by this clause will be made to the individuals identified in the clause at 1852.227-72, Designation of New Technology Representative and Patent Representative.

(iv) See also paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(6) Alternate IV to 52.227-11 is not used in NASA contracts. See instead 1827.303(b)(1).

(7) The contracting officer shall consult with the center patent or intellectual property counsel regarding the use of Alternate V in contracts for the performance of services at a NASA installation when a contractor is directed to fulfill the Government's obligations under a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3710a. Alternate V may be included in, or added to, the contract when it is contemplated that a Contractor will be directed to fulfill NASA's obligations under a CRADA, but should be added prior to the contractor performing work under the CRADA.
