
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 1827 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 1827.3 - Patent Rights Under Government Contracts
###### 1827.303 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.
####### i.e.,

(d)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.227-70, New Technology-Other than a Small Business Firm or Nonprofit Organization, in all NASA solicitations and contracts with other than a small business firm or a nonprofit organization (those subject to section 21035(b) of the Act), if the contract is to be performed in the United States, and has as a purpose the performance of experimental, developmental, research, design, or engineering work. Contracts for any of the following purposes may be considered to involve the performance of work of the type described above (these examples are illustrative and not all inclusive):

(i) Conduct of basic or applied research.

(ii) Development, design, or manufacture for the first time of any machine, article of manufacture, or composition of matter to satisfy NASA's specifications or special requirements.

(iii) Development of any process or technique for attaining a NASA objective not readily attainable through the practice of a previously developed process or technique.

(iv) Testing of, evaluation of, or experimentation with a machine, process, concept, or technique to determine whether it is suitable or could be made suitable for a NASA objective.

(v) Construction work or architect-engineer services having as a purpose the performance of experimental, developmental, or research work or test and evaluation studies involving such work.

(vi) The operation of facilities or the coordination and direction of the work of others, if these activities involve performing work of any of the types described in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this section.

(2) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 1852.227-71, Requests for Waiver of Rights to Inventions, in all solicitations that include the clause at 1852.227-70, New Technology-Other than a Small Business Firm or Nonprofit Organization (see paragraph (d)(1) of this section).
