
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 12 - ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
##### Subpart 12.3 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses for the Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services
###### 12.301 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.
####### The clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders- Commercial Products and Commercial Services

(4)This clause incorporates by reference only those clauses required to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. The contracting officer shall attach this clause to the solicitation and contract and, using the appropriate clause prescriptions, indicate which, if any, of the additional clauses cited in 52.212-5(b) or (c) are applicable to the specific acquisition. Some of the clauses require fill-in; the fill-in language should be inserted as directed by 52.104(d). When cost information is obtained pursuant to part 15 to establish the reasonableness of prices for commercial products or commercial services, the contracting officer shall insert the clauses prescribed for this purpose in an addendum to the solicitation and contract. This clause may not be tailored.

(i) Use the clause with its Alternate I when the head of the agency has waived the examination of records by the Comptroller General in accordance with 25.1001.

(ii)(A) If the acquisition will use funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5), the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate II.
