
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 12 - ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
##### Subpart 12.3 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses for the Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services
###### 12.301 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.
####### Other required provisions and clauses.

(d)Notwithstanding prescriptions contained elsewhere in the FAR, when acquiring commercial products or commercial services, contracting officers shall be required to use only those provisions and clauses prescribed in this part. The provisions and clauses prescribed in this part shall be revised, as necessary, to reflect the applicability of statutes and executive orders to the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.

(1) Insert the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, as prescribed in 4.1105(a).

(2) Insert the clause at 52.204-13, System for Award Management Maintenance, as prescribed in 4.1105(b).

(3) Insert the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting, as prescribed in 4.1804(a).

(4) Insert the clause at 52.204-18, Commercial and Government Entity Code Maintenance, as prescribed in 4.1804(c).

(5) Insert the clause at 52.204-21, Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems, in solicitations and contracts (except for acquisitions of COTS items), as prescribed in 4.1903.

(6) Insert the provision at 52.204-24, Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment, as prescribed in 4.2105(a).

(7) Insert the provision at 52.207-6, Solicitation of Offers from Small Business Concerns and Small Business Teaming Arrangements or Joint Ventures (Multiple-Award Contracts), as prescribed at 7.107-6.

(8) Insert the provision at 52.209-7, Information Regarding Responsibility Matters, as prescribed in 9.104-7(b).

(9) Insert the provision at 52.209-12, Certification Regarding Tax Matters, as prescribed at 9.104-7(e).

(10) Insert the provision at 52.222-56, Certification Regarding Trafficking in Persons Compliance Plan, in solicitations as prescribed at 22.1705(b).

(11) Insert the clause at 52.225-19, Contractor Personnel in a Designated Operational Area or Supporting a Diplomatic or Consular Mission outside the United States, as prescribed in 25.301-4.

(12) Insert the provision at 52.229-11, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements-Notice and Representation, in solicitations as prescribed in 29.402-3(a). The representation in the provision at 52.229-11 is not in the System for Award Management.

(13) Insert the clause at 52.229-13, Taxes-Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan, as prescribed in 29.402-4(a).

(14) Insert the clause at 52.229-14, Taxes-Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement), as prescribed in 29.402-4(b).
