
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1845 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 1845.1 - General
###### 1845.107-70 NASA solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-70, Contractor Requests for Government-furnished Property, in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts.

(2) Use the clause with its Alternate I when the center Supply and Equipment Management Officer (SEMO) consents to permit the contractor to screen Government inventory for available property in lieu of contractor acquisition of new items.

(b)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-71, Installation-Accountable Government Property, in solicitations and contracts when Government property is to be made available to a contractor working on a NASA installation, and the Government will maintain accountability for the property. The contracting officer shall list in the clause the applicable property user responsibilities. For purposes of this clause, NASA installations include local off-site buildings owned or leased by NASA.

(2) Use of this clause is subject to the SEMO's concurrence that adequate Government property management resources are available for oversight of the property in accordance with all applicable NASA installation property management directives.

(3) The contracting officer shall identify, in the contract, the nature, quantity, and acquisition cost of the property and make it available on a nocharge basis.

(4) The contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I if the SEMO requests that the contractor be restricted from use of the center central receiving facility for the purposes of receiving contractor-acquired property.
