
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1845 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 1845.1 - General
###### 1845.107-70 NASA solicitation provisions and contract clauses.
####### 1852.245-73,,1852.245-71,

(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause atFinancial Reporting of NASA Property in the Custody of Contractors, in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts and in all contracts in which the contractor has custody of NASA-owned property with a value of $10 million or more, unless all property to be provided is subject to the clause atInstallation-Accountable Government Property. Insert the clause 1852.245-73 in other types of solicitations and contracts when it is known at award that property will be provided to the contractor or that the contractor will acquire property title to which will vest in the Government prior to delivery.

(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-74, Identification and Marking of Government Equipment, in solicitations and contracts that-

(1) Include the clause at FAR 52.245-1; or

(2) Require the delivery of supplies.

(f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-75, Property Management Changes, in solicitations and contracts that provide for progress payments or include any of the property clauses prescribed in FAR Part 45.

(g) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-76, List of Government Property Furnished Pursuant to FAR 52.245-1, in solicitations and contracts when the contractor is to be accountable under the contract for Government property.

(h) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-77, List of Government Property Furnished Pursuant to FAR 52.245-2, in solicitations and contracts containing the clause at 52.245-2, Government Property Installation Operation Services. In addition, the contracting officer shall insert the following language in the blanks in paragraph (e) of the clause at 52.245-2:

"The Government property provided under this clause is identified in clause 1852.245-77 of this contract."

(i) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-78, Physical Inventory of Capital Personal Property, in cost reimbursement and fixed-price solicitations and contracts that provide Government property.

(j) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-79, Records and Disposition Reports for Government Property with Potential Historic or Significant Real Value, in solicitations and contracts when, after consultation with the center Historic Preservation Officer, it is determined that the items acquired for or produced by the contract are likely to have historic significance or increased value due to their use in support of NASA projects and programs.

(k)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 1852.245-80, Government Property Management Information, in solicitations when it is known, or there is a reasonable chance, that Government property will be provided to the contractor for contract performance.

(2) The contracting officer shall use the provision with Alternate 1 when there are sufficient time and resources to allow prospective contractors the opportunity to inspect the property.

(l) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 1852.245-81, List of Available Government Property, in solicitations when Government property will be made available for contract performance.

(m) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-82, Occupancy Management Requirements, in solicitations and contracts that require performance on, or in, any NASA Center, Installation, facility or other NASA real property.
