
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1845 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 1845.71 - Forms Preparation
###### 1845.7101-1 Property classification.
####### General.

(a)(1) Contractors shall report costs in the classifications on NF 1018, as described in this section. The cost of heritage assets and obsolete property will be reported on the NF 1018 under the appropriate classification. Supplemental reporting may also be required.

(2)(i) Heritage assets are property, plant and equipment that possess one or more of the following characteristics:

(A) Historical or natural significance;

(B) Cultural, educational or artistic importance; or

(C) Significant architectural characteristics.

(ii) Examples of NASA heritage assets include buildings and structures designated as National Historic Landmarks as well as aircraft, spacecraft and related components on display to enhance public understanding of NASA programs. Heritage assets which serve both a heritage and government operation function are considered multi-use when the predominant use is in general government operations. Multi-use heritage assets will not be considered heritage assets for NF 1018 supplemental reporting purposes.

(3) Obsolete property is property for which there are no current plans for use in its intended purpose (i.e., it no longer provides service to NASA operations). Examples of obsolete property are items in configurations which are no longer required or used by NASA or items held for engineering evaluation purposes only. NASA may have approved the retention of these items for programmatic reasons even though they have no current plans for use.
