
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1845 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 1845.71 - Forms Preparation
###### 1845.7101-1 Property classification.
####### Equipment.

(g)Includes costs of commercially available personal property capable of stand-alone use in manufacturing supplies, performing services, or any general or administrative purpose (for example, machine tools, furniture, vehicles, computers, software, test equipment, including their accessory or auxiliary items). Software integrated into and necessary to operate another item of Government property is considered to be an auxiliary item (see FAR 45.501) and should be considered part of the item of which it is an integral part. Other software to which NASA has title shall be classified as an individual item of equipment for reporting purposes if it has a useful life of 2 years or more and acquisition cost of $1,000,000 or more (also see 1845.7101-3(g)). Enhancement costs for existing software should be added to the software acquisition cost if the enhancement results in significant additional capability beyond that for which the software was originally developed (i.e., a capability that was not included in the original software specifications, the total cost of the enhancement is $1,000,000 or more, or the expected useful life of the enhanced software is 2 years or more). Software licenses are excluded. Contractors shall separately report:

(1) The amount for all items with a unit acquisition cost of $500,000 or more and a useful life of two years or more; and

(2) All other items.
