
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1845 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 1845.71 - Forms Preparation
###### 1845.7101-2 Transfers of property.

A transfer is a change in accountability between and among prime contracts, NASA Centers, and other Government agencies (e.g., between contracts of the same NASA Center, contracts of different NASA Centers, a contract of one NASA Center to another, a NASA Center to a contract of another NASA Center, and a contract to another Government agency or its contract). To enable NASA to properly control and account for all transfers, they shall be adequately documented. Adequate documentation includes the appropriate dollar amount of the asset(s) transferred (as prescribed in 1845.7101-3) and the formal, signed NASA or contractor authorization approving the transfer. In addition, procurement, property, and financial organizations at NASA Centers must effect all transfers of accountability, although physical shipment and receipt of property may be made directly by contractors. The procedures described in this section shall be followed to provide an administrative and audit trail, even if property is physically shipped directly from one contractor to another. Property shipped between September 1 and September 30, inclusively, shall be accounted for and reported by the shipping contractor, regardless of the method of shipment, unless written evidence of receipt at destination has been received. Repairables provided under fixed price repair contracts that include the clause at 1852.245-72, Liability for Government Property Furnished for Repair or Other Services, remain accountable to the cognizant NASA Center and are not reportable on NF 1018; repairables provided under a cost-reimbursement contract, however, are accountable to the contractor and reportable on NF 1018. All materials provided to conduct repairs are reportable, regardless of contract type.
