
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1846 - QUALITY ASSURANCE
##### Subpart 1846.6 - Material Inspection and Receiving Reports
###### 1846.672-1 Preparation instructions.
####### Block 2-SHIPMENT NO.

(d)(1) The shipment number is a three-alpha character prefix and a four-character numeric or alpha-numeric serial number.

(i) The prefix shall be controlled and assigned by the prime contractor and shall consist of three alpha characters for each "shipped from" address (Block 11). The prefix shall be different for each "Shipped From" address and shall remain constant throughout the contract period.

(ii) The serial number for the first shipment under a prime contract from each "shipped from" address shall be 0001; subsequent shipments under that prime contract shall be consecutively numbered. Alpha-numerics shall be used when more than 9,999 numbers are required. Alpha-numerics shall be serially assigned, with the alpha in the first position, followed by the three-position numeric serial number. The alpha-numeric sequence shall be (the letters I and O shall not be used) A001 through A999 (10,001 through 10,999); B001 through B999 (11,001 through 11,999); to Z999. When this series is completely used, numbering shall revert to 0001.

(2) The shipment number of the initial shipment shall be reassigned when a "replacement shipment" is involved (see paragraph (r)(4)(iv) of this section).

(3) The prime contractor shall control deliveries and on the last shipment of the contract shall suffix the shipment number with a "Z" in addition to that required for line items (see Block 17). If the contract final shipment is from other than the prime contractor's plant, the prime contractor may elect

(i) To direct the subcontractor to suffix the "Z" or

(ii), On receipt of the subcontractor final shipment information, to correct the DD Form 250 covering the last shipment from the prime contractor's plant by adding a "Z" to that shipment number.
