
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 18 - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 1846 - QUALITY ASSURANCE
##### Subpart 1846.6 - Material Inspection and Receiving Reports
###### 1846.672-1 Preparation instructions.
####### e.g.,

(i) The National Stock Number (NSN) or noncatalog number and, if applicable, prefix or suffix. When a number is not provided or it is necessary to supplement the number, include other identification such as the manufacturer's name or Federal Supply Code (as published in Cataloging Handbook H4-1), and part numbers. Additional part numbers may be shown in parentheses. Also enter the descriptive noun of the item nomenclature and, if provided, the Government-assigned management/material control code. In the case of equal-kind supply items, the first entry shall be the description without regard to kind ("Resistor"). Below this description, enter the contract item number in Block 15 and stock/part number followed by the size or type in Block 16.

(ii) On the next printing line, if required by the contract for control purposes, enter the make, model, serial number, lot, batch, hazard indicator, and/or similar description.

(iii) On the next printing line, enter the FEDSTRIP requisition number(s) when provided in the contract or shipping instructions.

(2) For service items, enter the word "SERVICE" followed by a short description of less than 20 characters. Do not complete items 4, 13, and 14 when material is not shipped.

(3) For all contracts administered by the Defense Contract Management Agency, with the exception of fast pay procedures, enter and complete the following:

Gross Shipping Wt.__(State weight in pounds only).

(4) Enter on the next line the following as appropriate (entries may be extended through Block 20). When entries apply to more than one item in the MIRR, enter them only once after the last item and reference the applicable item numbers.

(i) Enter in capital letters any special handling instructions/limits for material environmental control (e.g., temperature, humidity, aging, freezing, and shock).

(ii) When an NSN is required by, but not cited in, a contract and has not been furnished by the Government, shipment may be made at the direction of the contracting officer. Enter the authority for the shipment.

(iii) When Government-furnished property (GFP) is included with or incorporated into the line item, enter "GFP".

(iv) When the shipment consists of replacements for supplies previously furnished, enter in capital letters "REPLACEMENT SHIPMENT" (see paragraph (s)(3) of this section for replacement indicators.)

(v) For items shipped with missing components, enter and complete the following: "Item(s) shipped short of the following component(s): FSN or comparable identification ________, Quantity ________, Estimated Value ________, Authority ________."

(vi) When shipment is made of components that were short on a prior shipment, enter and complete the following: "These components were listed as shortages on Shipment Number ________, date shipped ________."

(vii) When shipments involve drums, cylinders, reels, containers, skids, etc., designated as returnable under contract provisions, enter and complete the following: "Return to ________, Quantity ________, Item ________, Ownership (Government/contractor)."

(viii) Enter shipping container number(s), the type, and the total number of the shipping container(s) included in the shipment.

(ix) The MIRR shall be used to record and report the waivers and deviations from contract specifications, including the source and authority for the waiver or deviation (e.g., the contracting office authorizing the waiver or deviation and the identification of the authorizing document).

(x) For shipments involving discount terms, enter "DISCOUNT EXPEDITE" in at least one-inch outline-type letters.

(xi) When test/evaluation results are a condition of acceptance and are not available before shipment, the following note shall be entered if the shipment is approved by the contracting officer: "Note: Acceptance and payment are contingent upon receipt of approved test/evaluation results." The contracting officer will advise (A) the consignee of the results (approval/disapproval) and (B) the contractor to withhold invoicing pending attachment to its invoice of the approved test/evaluation

(xii) The copy of the DD Form 250 required to support payment for destination acceptance (top copy of the four with shipment) or Alternative Release Procedure (ARP) origin acceptance (additional copy furnished to the Quality Assurance Representative (QAR)) shall be identified by entering "PAYMENT COPY" in approximately one-half-inch outline-type letters with "FORWARD TO BLOCK 12 ADDRESS" in approximately one-quarter-inch letters immediately below. Do not obliterate any other entries.

(xiii) A double line shall be drawn completely across the form following the last entry.
