
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 12 - ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
##### Subpart 12.5 - Applicability of Certain Laws to the Acquisition of Commercial Products, Commercial Services and Commercially Available Off-the-Shelf Items
###### 12.505 Applicability of certain laws to contracts for the acquisition of COTS items.

COTS items are a subset of commercial products. Therefore, any laws listed in sections 12.503 and 12.504 are also inapplicable or modified in their applicability to contracts or subcontracts for the acquisition of COTS items. In addition, the following laws are not applicable to contracts for the acquisition of COTS items:

(a)(1) The portion of 41 U.S.C. 8302, American Materials Required for Public Use, paragraph (a)(1) that reads "substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States," Buy American-Supplies, domestic content test, except as provided in 25.101(a)(2)(ii) (see 52.225-1 and 52.225-3).

(2) The portion of 41 U.S.C. 8303, Contracts for Public Works, paragraph (a)(2) that reads "substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States," Buy American-Construction Materials, domestic content test, except as provided in 25.201(b)(2)(ii)(see 52.225-9 and 52.225-11).

(b) 42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A), Certification and Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material.

(c) Compliance Plan and Certification Requirement, section 1703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239), Title XVII, Ending trafficking in Government Contracting (see 52.222-50(h) and 52.222-56).
