
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 20 - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 2011 - DESCRIBING AGENCY NEEDS
##### Subpart 2011.4 - Delivery or Performance Schedules - Contract Clauses
###### 2011.104-70 NRC Clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 2052.211-70 Preparation of Technical Reports, when deliverables include a technical report.

(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 2052.211-71 Technical Progress Report, in all solicitations and contracts except-

(1) Firm fixed price; or

(2) Indefinite-delivery contracts to be awarded on a time-and-materials or labor-hour basis, or that provide for issuing delivery orders for specific products/services (line items).

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 2052.211-72 Financial Status Report, in applicable cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts when detailed assessment of costs is warranted and a Contractor Spending Plan is required. The contracting officer shall use the clause at 2052.211-72 Financial Status Report-Alternate 1 when no Contractor Spending Plan is required.

(d) The contracting officer may alter clauses at 2052.211-70, 2052.211-71, 2052.211-72, and 2052.211-72, Alternate 1 before issuing the solicitation or during competition by solicitation amendment. Reporting requirements should be set at a meaningful and productive frequency. Insignificant changes may also be made by the contracting officer on a case-by-case basis during negotiations without solicitation amendment.
