
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 20 - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 2015 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 2015.2 - Solicitation and Receipt of Proposals and Implementation
###### 2015.209-70 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts that are applicable to the requirement:

(1) Section 2052.215-70, Key Personnel in applicable solicitations and contracts;

(2)(i) Section 2052.215-71, Project Officer Authority in applicable solicitations and contracts for cost-reimbursement, cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee, cost sharing, labor-hour or time-and-materials, including task order contracts. This clause and the following alternate clauses are intended for experienced, trained project officers, and may be altered to delete duties where appropriate:

(ii) Section 2052.215-71 Alternate 1. For solicitations for issuance of delivery orders for specific products/services;

(iii) Section 2052.215-71 Alternate 2. For solicitations for firm fixed price contracts, with paragraph (b)(1) of Alternate 1 deleted and the remainder of the clause renumbered.

(3) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 2052.215-72, Timely Receipt of Proposals in all solicitations;

(4) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 2052.215-73, Award Notification and Commitment of Public Funds in all solicitations; and

(5) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 2052.215-74, Disposition of Proposals in all solicitations.

(b) The contracting officer may insert the following provisions in all solicitations as applicable. These provisions may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement. These provisions shall be tailored to assure that all sections of the instructions for the Technical and Management Proposal, or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation, reflect a one-to-one relationship to the evaluation criteria:

(1) Section 2052.215-75, Proposal Presentation and Format for negotiated procurements for cost type contracts;

(2) Section 2052.215-75 Alternate 1 may be used for all solicitations for negotiated task order contracts;

(3) Section 2015.215-75 Alternate 2 may be used for all solicitations for negotiated fixed price, labor hour, or time and materials contracts:

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 2052.215-76, PreProposal Conference, in solicitations which include a PreProposal conference. This provision may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement.

(d) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts as applicable:

(1) Section 2052.215-77, Travel Approvals and Reimbursement, must be inserted in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which require travel but do not set a specific ceiling amount on that travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel date.

(2) Section 2052.215-78, Travel Approvals and Reimbursement-Alternate 1, shall be inserted in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which include a ceiling amount on travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel.

(e) The contracting officer shall include the following provisions in all solicitations for competitive procurements to describe the relationship of technical considerations to cost considerations. The contracting officer may make appropriate changes to these provisions to accurately reflect other evaluation procedures, such as evaluation of proposals against mandatory criteria and bench marking criteria for Information Technology (IT) procurements:

(1) Section 2052.215-79 Contract Award and Evaluation of Proposals, shall be included in all solicitations where technical merit is more important than cost,

(2) Section 2052.215-79 Alternate 1 must be included when proposals are to be evaluated on a lowest price, technically acceptable basis.

(3) Section 2052.215-79 Alternate 2 shall be included where cost and technical merit are of equal significance.
