
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 21 - Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 2149 - TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS
##### 2149.002 Applicability.
###### Termination.

(a)(1) Termination of FEGLI Program contracts is controlled by 5 U.S.C. 8709(c) and this chapter. The procedures for termination of FEGLI Program contracts are contained in FAR part 49. For the purpose of this part, terminate means to discontinue as used in 5 U.S.C. 8709(c).

(2) A life insurance contract entered into by OPM may be terminated by OPM at any time for default by the Contractor in accordance with the provisions of FAR part 49 and FAR 52.249-8. A life insurance contract entered into by OPM may be terminated by the Contractor at the end of the grace period, after default for nonpayment by OPM. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Contractor will allow OPM an additional 5 days after the end of the grace period to make payment if the failure to make payment was inadvertent and/or due to circumstances beyond the Government's control.

(3) A life insurance contract entered into by OPM may be terminated for convenience of the Government 60 days after the Contractor's receipt of OPM's written notice to terminate.

(4) The Contractor may terminate its contract with OPM at the end of any contract year when notice of intent to terminate is given to OPM in writing at least 60 days prior to the end of the contract year (i.e., no later than July 31).
