
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 24 - Department of Housing and Urban Development
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2401 - FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart 2401.1 - Purpose, Authority, Issuance
###### 2401.105-2 Arrangement of regulations.
####### Numbering.

(b)Generally, the numbering system and part, subpart, and section titles used in the HUDAR conform with those used in the FAR or as follows:

(1) When the HUDAR implements or deviates from a parallel part, subpart, section, subsection, or paragraph of the FAR, that implementation or deviation will be numbered and captioned where possible to correspond to the FAR part, subpart, section, subsection, or paragraph. For example, FAR subpart 1.4, Deviations, is implemented in HUD's acquisition regulations at subpart 2401.4, Deviations. (The "24" in the number indicates what chapter of title 48 contains the HUDAR.)

(2) When HUD supplements material contained in the FAR, it is given a unique number containing the numerals "70" or higher. The rest of the number will parallel the FAR part, subpart, section, subsection, or paragraph it is supplementing. For example, FAR 14.407, Award, does not contain a provision for the steps to be taken when only one bid is received. The HUDAR provides this information. Since the subject matter supplements what is contained in FAR 14.407, the HUDAR section supplementing the FAR is numbered 2414.407-70.

(3) Where material in the FAR requires no implementation or deviation, there is no corresponding numbering in the HUDAR. Therefore, there may be gaps in the HUDAR sequence of numbers where the FAR, as written, is applicable to the HUDAR and requires no further implementation.
