
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 13 - SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 13.3 - Simplified Acquisition Methods
###### 13.303-2 Establishment of BPAs.

(a) The following are circumstances under which contracting officers may establish BPAs:

(1) There is a wide variety of items in a broad class of supplies or services that are generally purchased, but the exact items, quantities, and delivery requirements are not known in advance and may vary considerably.

(2) There is a need to provide commercial sources of supply for one or more offices or projects in a given area that do not have or need authority to purchase otherwise.

(3) The use of this procedure would avoid the writing of numerous purchase orders.

(4) There is no existing requirements contract for the same supply or service that the contracting activity is required to use.

(b) After determining a BPA would be advantageous, contracting officers shall-

(1) Establish the parameters to limit purchases to individual items or commodity groups or classes, or permit the supplier to furnish unlimited supplies or services; and

(2) Consider suppliers whose past performance has shown them to be dependable, who offer quality supplies or services at consistently lower prices, and who have provided numerous purchases at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.

(c) BPAs may be established with-

(1) More than one supplier for supplies or services of the same type to provide maximum practicable competition;

(2) A single firm from which numerous individual purchases at or below the simplified acquisition threshold will likely be made in a given period; or

(3) Federal Supply Schedule contractors, if not inconsistent with the terms of the applicable schedule contract.

(d) BPAs should be prepared without a purchase requisition and only after contacting suppliers to make the necessary arrangements for-

(1) Securing maximum discounts;

(2) Documenting individual purchase transactions;

(3) Periodic billings; and

(4) Incorporating other necessary details.
