
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 13 - SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 13.3 - Simplified Acquisition Methods
###### 13.303-5 Purchases under BPAs.

(a) Use a BPA only for purchases that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation.

(b) Individual purchases shall not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. However, agency regulations may establish a higher threshold consistent with the following:

(1) The simplified acquisition threshold and the $7.5 million limitation for individual purchases ($15 million for purchases entered into under the authority of 12.102(f)(1)) do not apply to BPAs established in accordance with 13.303-2(c)(3).

(2) The limitation for individual purchases for commercial product and commercial serviceacquisitions conducted under subpart 13.5 is $7.5 million ($15 million for acquisitions as described in 13.500(c)).

(c) The existence of a BPA does not justify purchasing from only one source or avoiding small business set-asides. The requirements of 13.003(b) and subpart 19.5 also apply to each order.

(d) If, for a particular purchase greater than the micro-purchase threshold, there is an insufficient number of BPAs to ensure maximum practicable competition, the contracting officer shall-

(1) Solicit quotations from other sources (see 13.105) and make the purchase as appropriate; and

(2) Establish additional BPAs to facilitate future purchases if-

(i) Recurring requirements for the same or similar supplies or services seem likely;

(ii) Qualified sources are willing to accept BPAs; and

(iii) It is otherwise practical to do so.

(e) Limit documentation of purchases to essential information and forms as follows:

(1) Purchases generally should be made electronically, or orally when it is not considered economical or practical to use electronic methods.

(2) A paper purchase document may be issued if necessary to ensure that the supplier and the purchaser agree concerning the transaction.

(3) Unless a paper document is issued, record essential elements (e.g., date, supplier, supplies or services, price, delivery date) on the purchase requisition, in an informal memorandum, or on a form developed locally for the purpose.

(4) Cite the pertinent purchase requisitions and the accounting and appropriation data.

(5) When delivery is made or the services are performed, the supplier's sales document, delivery document, or invoice may (if it reflects the essential elements) be used for the purpose of recording receipt and acceptance of the supplies or services. However, if the purchase is assigned to another activity for administration, the authorized Government representative shall document receipt and acceptance of supplies or services by signing and dating the agency specified form after verification and after notation of any exceptions.
