
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 13 - SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION PROCEDURES
##### 13.003 Policy.

(a) Agencies shall use simplified acquisition procedures to the maximum extent practicable for all purchases of supplies or services not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold (including purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold). This policy does not apply if an agency can meet its requirement using-

(1) Required sources of supply under part 8 (e.g., Federal Prison Industries, Committee for Purchase from People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled, and Federal Supply Schedule contracts);

(2) Existing indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts; or

(3) Other established contracts.

(b)(1) Acquisitions of supplies or services that have an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase threshold, but at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, shall be set aside for small business concerns (see 19.000, 19.203, and subpart 19.5).

(2) The contracting officer may make an award to a small business concern under the-

(i) 8(a) Program (see subpart 19.8);

(ii) Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Program (but see 19.1305);

(iii) Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program (see subpart 19.14); or

(iv) Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program (see subpart 19.15).

(3) The following contracting officer's decisions for acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold are not subject to review under subpart 19.4:

(i) A decision not to make an award under the 8(a) Program.

(ii) A decision not to set aside an acquisition for HUBZone small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, or EDWOSB concerns and WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program.

(4) Each written solicitation under a set-aside shall contain the appropriate provisions prescribed by part 19. If the solicitation is oral, however, information substantially identical to that in the provision shall be given to potential quoters.

(c)(1) The contracting officer shall not use simplified acquisition procedures to acquire supplies and services if the anticipated award will exceed-

(i) The simplified acquisition threshold; or

(ii) $7.5 million ($15 million for acquisitions as described in 13.500(c)), including options, for acquisitions of commercial products or commercial services using subpart 13.5.

(2) Do not break down requirements aggregating more than the simplified acquisition threshold (or for commercial products and commercial services, the threshold in subpart 13.5) or the micro-purchase threshold into several purchases that are less than the applicable threshold merely to-

(i) Permit use of simplified acquisition procedures; or

(ii) Avoid any requirement that applies to purchases exceeding the micro-purchase threshold.

(d) An agency that has specific statutory authority to acquire personal services (see 37.104) may use simplified acquisition procedures to acquire those services.

(e) Agencies shall use the Governmentwide commercial purchase card and electronic purchasing techniques to the maximum extent practicable in conducting simplified acquisitions (but see 32.1108(b)(2)).

(f) Agencies shall maximize the use of electronic commerce when practicable and cost-effective (see Subpart 4.5). Drawings and lengthy specifications can be provided off-line in hard copy or through other appropriate means.

(g) Authorized individuals shall make purchases in the simplified manner that is most suitable, efficient, and economical based on the circumstances of each acquisition. For acquisitions not expected to exceed-

(1) The simplified acquisition threshold when acquiring other than commercial products or commercial services, use any appropriate combination of the procedures in parts 13, 14, 15, 35, or 36, including the use of Standard Form 1442, Solicitation, Offer, and Award (Construction, Alteration, or Repair), for construction contracts (see 36.701(a)); or

(2) $7.5 million ($15 million for acquisitions as described in 13.500(c)), for commercial products or commercial services, use any appropriate combination of the procedures in parts 12, 13, 14, and 15 (see paragraph (d) of this section).

(h) In addition to other considerations, contracting officers shall-

(1) Promote competition to the maximum extent practicable (see 13.104);

(2) Establish deadlines for the submission of responses to solicitations that afford suppliers a reasonable opportunity to respond (see 5.203);

(3) Consider all quotations or offers that are timely received. For evaluation of quotations or offers received electronically, see13.106-2(b)(4); and

(4) Use innovative approaches, to the maximum extent practicable, in awarding contracts using simplified acquisition procedures.
