
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 29 - Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 2917 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 2917.5 - Interagency Acquisitions Under The Economy Act
###### 2917.502 General.
####### bona fide

(i) A binding written agreement for specific goods or services to meet an existingneed;

(ii) For a purpose authorized by law; and

(iii) Executed and obligated by the receiving agency before the expiration of available funds.

(2) The Economy Act authorizes interagency acquisitions and provides for payment in advance, as well as reimbursement to the appropriation account to which the performance costs have been charged. The Economy Act further authorizes the servicing agency, as an alternative to fulfilling the requirement through internal resources, to obtain the needed supplies or services by contract.

(3) An agreement entered into under the Economy Act is recorded as an obligation by the requesting agency the same as a contract. However, under the Economy Act, the obligated appropriations must be deobligated upon the date of "expiration" of the appropriation account to the extent that the servicing agency has not incurred obligations through charged costs or under a contract.

(4) Within DOL, the DOL agencies have a number of statutory authorities available for entering into interagency agreements. Each DOL agency, in consultation with the Office of the Solicitor, must be responsible for determining those authorities, as well as constraints applicable to the use of advance payments and contractors, and set-up procedures.
