
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 29 - Department of Labor
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 2937 - SERVICE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 2937.1 - Service Contracts-General
###### 2937.103-70 Department of Labor checklist to aid analysis and review of requirements for service contracts.
####### Cost effectiveness.

(b)If the response to any of the following questions is negative, the agency may not have a valid requirement or not be obtaining the requirement in the most cost effective manner.

(1) Is the statement of work written so that it supports the need for a specific service?

(2) Is the statement of work written so that it permits adequate evaluation of contractor versus in-house cost and performance?

(3) Are the choices of contract type, quality assurance plan, competition strategy, or other related acquisition strategies and procedures in the acquisition plan appropriate to ensure good contractor performance to meet the user's needs?

(4) If a cost reimbursement contract is contemplated, is the acquisition plan adequate to ensure that the contractor will have the incentive to control costs under the contract?

(5) Is the acquisition plan adequate to address the cost effectiveness of using contractor support (either long-term or short-term) versus in-house performance?

(6) Is the cost estimate or other supporting cost information adequate to enable the contracting office to effectively determine whether costs are reasonable?

(7) Is the statement of work adequate to describe the requirement in terms of "what" is to be performed as opposed to "how" the work is to be accomplished?

(8) Is the acquisition plan adequate to ensure that there is proper consideration given to "quality" and "best value?"
