
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 29 - Department of Labor
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 2937 - SERVICE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 2937.1 - Service Contracts-General
###### 2937.103-70 Department of Labor checklist to aid analysis and review of requirements for service contracts.
####### Conflicts of interest.

(d)If the response to any of the following questions is affirmative, there may be a conflict of interest.

(1) Can the potential offeror perform under the contract to devise solutions or make recommendations that would influence the award of future contracts to that contractor?

(2) If the requirement is for support services (such as system engineering or technical direction), were any of the potential offerors involved in developing the system design specifications or in the production of the system?

(3) Has a potential offeror participated in earlier work involving the same program or activity that is the subject of the present contract, wherein the offeror had access to source selection or proprietary information not available to other offerors competing for the contract?

(4) Will the contractor be evaluating a competitor's work?

(5) Does the contract allow the contractor to accept its own products or activities on behalf of the Government?

(6) Will the work under this contract put the contractor in a position to influence government decision-making, e.g., developing regulations that will affect the contractor's current or future business?

(7) Will the work under this contract affect the interests of the contractor's other clients?

(8) Are any of the potential offerors, or their personnel who will perform the contract, former agency officials who-while employed by the agency-personally and substantially participated in the development of the requirement for, or the procurement of, these services within the past two years?
