
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 30 - Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR)
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 3001 - FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart 3001.3 - Agency Acquisition Regulations
###### 3001.301 Policy.

(a)(1) The HSAR is issued for Departmental guidance according to the policy cited in (FAR) 48 CFR 1.301. The HSAR establishes uniform Department of Homeland Security policies and procedures for all acquisition activities within the Department of Homeland Security. Component supplemental acquisition regulations to be inserted in the HSAR as a HSAR supplement regulation must be reviewed and approved by the Chief Procurement Officer (CPO) before the CPO authorizes and submits the proposed content for publication in theunder (FAR) 48 CFR part 1, subparts 1.3 and 1.5.

(2)(i) The CPO is authorized to issue internal agency guidance at any organizational level. Department-wide procedures are contained in the HSAM. The HCA may implement internal procedures or supplement the FAR, HSAR, or HSAM as provided in HSAM 3001.3. The HCA may issue procedures or delegate this authority to any organizational level deemed appropriate. Component procedures may be more restrictive or require higher approval levels than those permitted by the HSAM, unless otherwise specified.

(ii) Individuals granted authority in the HSAR may delegate that authority, unless the FAR or HSAR specifically state that the authority is not delegable.
