
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 14 - SEALED BIDDING
##### Subpart 14.2 - Solicitation of Bids
###### 14.201-6 Solicitation provisions.

(a) The provisions prescribed in this subsection apply to preparation and submission of bids in general. See other FAR parts for provisions and clauses related to specific acquisition requirements.

(b) Insert in all invitations for bids the provisions at-

(1) 52.214-3, Amendments to Invitations for Bids; and

(2) 52.214-4, False Statements in Bids.

(c) Insert the following provisions in invitations for bids:

(1) 52.214-5, Submission of Bids.

(2) 52.214-6, Explanation to Prospective Bidders.

(3) 52.214-7, Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Insert in all invitations for bids, except those for construction, the provision at 52.214-10, Contract Award-Sealed Bidding.

(f) Insert in invitations for bids to which the uniform contract format applies, the provision at 52.214-12, Preparation of Bids.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Insert the provision at 52.214-14, Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding, in invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(i) Insert the provision at 52.214-15, Period for Acceptance of Bids, in invitations for bids (IFB's) that are not issued on SF 33 or SF 1447 except IFB's (1) for construction work or (2) in which the Government specifies a minimum acceptance period.

(j) Insert the provision at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period, in invitations for bids, except for construction, if the contracting officer determines that a minimum acceptance period must be specified.

(k) [Reserved]

(l) Insert the provision at 52.214-18, Preparation of Bids-Construction, in invitations for bids for construction work.

(m) Insert the provision at 52.214-19, Contract Award-Sealed Bidding-Construction, in all invitations for bids for construction work.

(n) [Reserved]

(o)(1) Insert the provision at 52.214-20, Bid Samples, in invitations for bids if bid samples are required.

(2) If it appears that the conditions in 14.202-4(e)(1) will apply and the contracting officer anticipates granting waivers and-

(i) If the nature of the required product does not necessitate limiting the grant of a waiver to a product produced at the same plant in which the product previously acquired or tested was produced, use the provision with its Alternate I; or

(ii) If the nature of the required product necessitates limiting the grant of a waiver to a product produced at the same plant in which the product previously acquired or tested was produced, use the provision with its Alternate II.

(3) See 14.202-4(e)(2) regarding waiving the requirement for all bidders.

(p)(1) Insert the provision at 52.214-21, Descriptive Literature, in invitations for bids if (i) descriptive literature is required to evaluate the technical acceptability of an offered product and (ii) the required information will not be readily available unless it is submitted by bidders.

(2) Use the basic clause with its Alternate I if the possibility exists that the contracting officer may waive the requirement for furnishing descriptive literature for a bidder offering a previously supplied product that meets specification requirements of the current solicitation.

(3) See 14.202-5(d)(2) regarding waiving the requirement for all bidders.

(q) Insert the provision at 52.214-22, Evaluation of Bids for Multiple Awards, in invitations for bids if the contracting officer determines that multiple awards might be made if doing so is economically advantageous to the Government.

(r) Insert the provision at 52.214-23, Late Submissions, Modifications, Revisions, and Withdrawals of Technical Proposals under Two-Step Sealed Bidding, in solicitations for technical proposals in step one of two-step sealed bidding.

(s) Insert the provision at 52.214-24, Multiple Technical Proposals, in solicitations for technical proposals in step one of two-step sealed bidding if the contracting officer permits the submission of multiple technical proposals.

(t) Insert the provision at 52.214-25, Step Two of Two-Step Sealed Bidding, in invitations for bids issued under step two of two-step sealed bidding.

(u) [Reserved]

(v) Insert the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile Bids, in solicitations if facsimile bids are authorized (see 14.202-7).

(w) Insert the provision at 52.214-34, Submission of Offers in the English Language, in solicitations that include any of the clauses prescribed in 25.1101 or 25.1102. It may be included in other solicitations when the contracting officer decides that it is necessary.

(x) Insert the provision at 52.214-35, Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency, in solicitations that include any of the clauses prescribed in 25.1101 or 25.1102, unless the contracting officer includes the clause at 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, as prescribed in 25.1103(d). It may be included in other solicitations when the contracting officer decides that it is necessary.
