
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 30 - Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR)
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 3009 - CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS
##### Subpart 3009.1 - Responsible Prospective Contractors
###### 3009.171-6 Guidelines for contracting officers.

(a) In accordance with FAR Subpart 9.4 (48 CFR subpart 9.4), a contracting officer may not award a contract for FPS guard services to any business concern that is suspended, debarred or proposed for debarment unless the agency head determines that there is a compelling reason for such action.

(b) The contracting officer shall not award a contract for FPS guard services to any business concern that is otherwise nonresponsible on the same contract.

(c) The contracting officer shall not award an FPS guard services contract to any business concern that is owned, controlled or operated by an individual convicted of a serious felony as defined in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.171-5 except as provided in under (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.171-7.

(d) In considering an award request under (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.171-7, the contracting officer may not review the fact of the conviction itself, but may consider any information provided by the individual or business concern, and any information known to the contracting officer. Factors that the contracting officer may consider include, but are not limited to:

(1) The age of the conviction.

(2) The nature and circumstances surrounding the conviction.

(3) Protective measures taken by the individual or business concern to reduce or eliminate the risk of further misconduct.

(4) Whether the individual has made full restitution for the felony.

(5) Whether the individual has accepted responsibility for past misconduct resulting in the felony conviction.
