
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 30 - Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR)
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 3025 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 3025.70 - American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition
###### 3025.7002-1 Restrictions.

The following restrictions implement section 604 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and they apply to all types of actions, orders, exercising of an option and contracts. Except as provided in subsection (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7002-2, do not acquire, either as end products or components, any item listed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, if the item is directly related to the national security interests of the United States and the item has not been grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States:

(a) Commercial or non-commercial items-(1) Clothing and the materials and components thereof, other than sensors, electronics, or other items added to, and not normally associated with, clothing (and the materials and components thereof); or

(2) Tents, tarpaulins, covers, textile belts, bags, protective equipment (such as body armor), sleep systems (sleeping bags), load carrying equipment (such as fieldpacks), textile marine equipment, parachutes or bandages.

(b) Non-commercial items-

(1) Cotton and other natural fiber products.

(2) Woven silk or woven silk blends.

(3) Spun silk yarn for cartridge cloth.

(4) Synthetic fabric or coated synthetic fabric (including all textile fibers and yarns that are for use in such fabrics).

(5) Canvas products.

(6) Wool (whether in the form of fiber or yarn or contained in fabrics, materials, or manufactured articles).

(7) Any item of individual equipment manufactured from or containing any of the fibers, yarns, fabrics, or materials listed in this paragraph (b).
