
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 30 - Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR)
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 3025 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 3025.70 - American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition
###### 3025.7002-2 Exceptions.

Acquisitions in the following categories are not subject to the restrictions in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7002-1:

(a) Acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.

(b) Acquisition of items not directly related to national security interests of the United States.

(c) Acquisitions of any of the items otherwise covered by (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7002-1, if the Chief Procurement Officer determines that the item grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States cannot be acquired as and when needed in a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity at United States market prices. When this exception is used-

(1) Only the DHS Chief Procurement Officer is authorized to make the domestic nonavailability determination.

(2) The DHS Component, not later than 7 days after the award of the contract, must post a notification that the exception has been applied on the Government-wide point of entry, which may be combined with any synopsis of award.

(3) The supporting documentation for the CPO determination prepared by the DHS Component(s) shall include-

(i) An analysis of alternatives that would not require a domestic nonavailability determination; and

(ii) A written justification by the requiring activity, with specificity, why such alternatives are unacceptable.

(d) Acquisitions of items listed in FAR 48 CFR 25.104.

(e) Emergency acquisitions by activities located outside the United States.

(f) Acquisitions by vessels in foreign waters.

(g) Acquisitions of incidental amounts of cotton, other natural fibers, wool or other item covered by (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7002-1(a)-(b) incorporated in an end product, for which the estimated value of the item so covered is not more than 10 percent of the total price of the end product.

(h) Acquisitions of items otherwise covered by (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7002-1(a) and (b) for which restricting a procurement of the items to those that have been grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States would be inconsistent with United States obligations under international agreements. Acquisitions of products that are eligible products per (FAR) 48 CFR subpart 25.4 are not covered by these restrictions; see (HSAR) 48 CFR 3025.7003-2 for specific application of trade agreements.
