
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 30 - Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR)
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 3028 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 3028.3 - Insurance
###### 3028.306-90 Contracts for lease of aircraft (USCG).
####### bona fide

(d) 49 U.S.C. 44112, as amended, provides that no lessor of an aircraft under alease of 30 days or more shall be liable by reason of his interest as lessor or title-holder of the aircraft for any injury to or death of persons, or damage to or loss of property, unless such aircraft is in the actual possession or control of such person at the time of such injury, death, damage or loss. On short-term or intermittent-use leases, however, the owner may be liable for damage caused by operation of the aircraft. It is usual for the aircraft owner to retain insurance covering this liability during the term of such lease. Such insurance can, often for little or no increase in premium, be made to cover the Government's exposure to liability as well. In order to take advantage of this coverage, the Risks and Indemnities clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.228-93 prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be used.

(1) For the U.S. Coast Guard, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.228-93, Risk and Indemnities, in any contract for out-service flight training or for the lease of aircraft when the Government will have exclusive use of the aircraft for a period of less than thirty days.

(2) For the U.S. Coast Guard, any contract for out-service flight training shall include a clause in the contract schedule stating substantially that the contractor's personnel shall at all times during the course of the training be in command of the aircraft and that at no time shall other personnel be permitted to take command of the aircraft.
