
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 34 - Department of Education Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 3416 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 3416.4 - Incentive Contracts
###### 3416.470 Award-term contracting.
####### Applicability.

(b)A Contracting Officer may authorize use of an award-term incentive contract for acquisitions where the quality of contractor performance is of a critical or highly important nature. The basic contract term may be extended on the basis of the Federal government's determination of the excellence of the contractor's performance. Additional periods of performance, which are referred to herein as "award terms," are available for possible award to the contractor. As award term(s) are awarded, each additional period of performance will immediately follow the period of performance for which the award term was granted. The contract may end at the base period of performance if the Federal government determines that the contractor's performance does not reflect a level of performance as described in the award-term plan. Award-term periods may only be earned based on the evaluated quality of the performance of the contractor. Meeting the terms of the contract is not justification to award an award-term period. The use of an award-term plan does not exempt the contract from the requirements of FAR 17.207, with respect to performing due diligence prior to extending a contract term.
