
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 52 - Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations
### PART 5231 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart 5231.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
##### 5231.205-90 Shipbuilding capability preservation agreements.
###### Purpose and guidelines.

(c)The purpose of a shipbuilding capability preservation agreement is to broaden and strengthen the shipbuilding industrial base by providing an incentive for a shipbuilder to obtain new private sector work, thereby reducing the Navy's cost of doing business. The Navy will use the following guidelines to evaluate requests for shipbuilding capability preservation agreements:

(1) The Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and Acquisition must make a determination that an agreement would facilitate the achievement of the policy objectives set forth in 10 U.S.C. 2501(b). The primary consideration in making this determination is whether an agreement would promote future growth in the amount of private sector work that a shipbuilder is able to obtain.

(2) An agreement generally will be considered only for a shipbuilder with little or no private sector work.

(3) The agreement shall apply to prospective private sector work only, and shall not extend beyond 5 years.

(4) The agreement must project an overall benefit to the Navy, including net savings. This would be achieved by demonstrating that private sector work will absorb costs that otherwise would be absorbed by the Navy.
