
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 52 - Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations
### PART 5231 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart 5231.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
##### 5231.205-90 Shipbuilding capability preservation agreements.
###### Cost-reimbursement rules.

(d)If the Navy enters into a shipbuilding capability preservation agreement with a contractor, the following cost-reimbursement rules apply:

(1) The agreement shall require the contractor to allocate the following costs to private sector work:

(i) The direct costs attributable to the private sector work;

(ii) The incremental indirect costs attributable to the private sector work; and

(iii) The non-incremental indirect costs to the extent that the revenue attributable to the private sector work exceeds the sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this subsection.

(2) The agreement shall require that the sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(1)(iii) of this subsection not exceed the amount of indirect costs that would have been allocated to the private sector work in accordance with the contractor's established accounting practices.

(3) The Navy may agree to modify the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this subsection if it determines that a modification is appropriate to the particular situation. In so doing, the Navy may agree to the allocation of a smaller or larger portion of the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this subsection, to private sector work.

(i) Any smaller amount shall not be less than the sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this subsection.

(ii) Any larger amount shall not exceed the sum of the costs specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this subsection and the amount of indirect costs that would have been allocated to the private sector work in accordance with the contractor's established accounting practices.

(iii) In determining whether such a modification is appropriate, the Navy will consider factors such as the impact of pre-existing firm-fixed-price Navy contracts on the amount of costs that would be reimbursed by the Navy, the impact of pre-existing private sector work on the cost benefit that would be received by the contractor, and the extent to which allocating a smaller or larger portion of costs to private sector work would provide a sufficient incentive for the contractor to obtain additional private sector work.
