
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 61 - Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration
### PART 6102 - CROP INSURANCE CASES
#### 6102.202 Rules for crop insurance cases [Rule 202].
##### Rule 2 (48 CFR 6101.2).

(b)(1) Rule 2(a) (48 CFR 6101.2(a)) is replaced with the following for FCIC cases: A notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall be signed by the appellant or by the appellant's attorney or authorized representative. If the appeal is from a determination by the Deputy Administrator of Insurance Services regarding an action alleged not to be in accordance with the provisions of a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (or other reinsurance agreement), or if the appeal is from a determination by the Deputy Administrator of Compliance concerning a determination regarding a compliance matter, the notice of appeal should describe the determination in enough detail to enable the Board to differentiate that decision from any other; the appellant can satisfy this requirement by attaching to the notice of appeal a copy of the Deputy Administrator's determination. If an appeal is taken from the failure of the Deputy Administrator to make a timely determination, the notice of appeal should describe in detail the matter that the Deputy Administrator has failed to determine; the appellant can satisfy this requirement by attaching to the notice of appeal a copy of the written request for a determination it sent to the Deputy Administrator.

(2) In Rule 2(a) (48 CFR 6101.2(a)), the references to "contracting officer" are references to "Deputy Administrator."

(3) Rule 2(b) (48 CFR 6101.2(b)) does not apply to FCIC cases.

(4) In Rule 2(d)(1) (48 CFR 6101.2(d)(1)), an appeal from a determination of a Deputy Administrator shall be filed no later than 90 calendar days after the date the appellant receives that determination. The Board is authorized to resolve only those appeals that are timely filed.

(5) In Rule 2(d)(2) (48 CFR 6101.2(d)(2)), an appeal may be filed with the Board if the Deputy Administrator fails or refuses to issue a determination within 90 days after the appellant submits a request for a determination.
