
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 99 - Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - Procurement Practices and Cost Accounting Standards
#### PART 9904 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
##### 9904.412-60.1 Illustrations - CAS Pension Harmonization Rule.
###### Actuarial Gain and Loss-Change in Liability Basis.

(d)(1) Assume the same facts shown in 9904.412-60.1(b) for Segment 1 of the Harmony Corporation for 2017. Table 11 shows the actuarial liabilities and normal costs plus any expense loads for Segment 1 for 2016 through 2018.

(2) For 2016, the sum of the minimum actuarial liability and minimum normal cost does not exceed the sum of the actuarial accrued liability and normal cost. Therefore the criterion of 9904.412-50(b)(7)(i) is not met, and the actuarial accrued liability and normal cost are used to compute the pension cost for 2016. For 2017, the sum of the minimum actuarial liability and minimum normal cost exceeds the sum of the actuarial accrued liability and normal cost, and therefore the pension cost is computed using minimum actuarial liability and minimum normal cost as required by 9904.412-50(b)(7)(i). For 2018, the sum of the minimum actuarial liability and minimum normal cost does not exceed the sum of the actuarial accrued liability and normal cost, and the actuarial accrued liability and normal cost are used to compute the pension cost for 2018 because the criterion of 9904.412-50(b)(7)(i) is not met. Table 12 shows the measurement of the unfunded actuarial liability for 2016 through 2018.

(3) Except for changes in the value of the assumed interest rate used to measure the minimum actuarial liability and minimum normal cost, there were no changes to the pension plan's actuarial assumptions or actuarial cost methods during the period of 2016 through 2018. The contractor's actuary measured the expected unfunded actuarial liability and determined the actuarial gain or loss for 2017 and 2018 as shown in Table 13.

(4) According to the actuarial valuation report, the 2017 actuarial loss of $523,788 includes a $494,000 actuarial loss due to a change in measurement basis from using an actuarial accrued liability of $2,100,000 to using a minimum actuarial liability of $2,594,000, including the effect of any change in the interest rate basis. (See Table 11 for the actuarial accrued liability and the minimum actuarial liability.) The $494,000 loss ($2,594,000-$2,100,000) due to the change in the liability basis is amortized as part of the total actuarial loss of $523,788 over a ten-year period in accordance with 9904.412-50(a)(1)(v) and 9904.413-50(a)(2)(ii). Similarly, the next year's valuation report shows a 2018 actuarial gain of $437,696, which includes a $93,000 actuarial gain ($2,305,000-$2,212,000) due to a change from a minimum actuarial liability back to a an actuarial accrued liability basis, which includes the effect of any change in interest rate basis. The $93,000 gain due the change in the liability basis will be amortized as part of the total $437,696 actuarial gain over a ten-year period in accordance with 9904.412-50(a)(1) and 9904.413-50(a)(2)(ii).
