
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 99 - Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - Procurement Practices and Cost Accounting Standards
#### PART 9904 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
##### 9904.413-50 Techniques for application.
###### Assignment of actuarial gains and losses.

(a)(1) In accordance with the provisions of Cost Accounting Standard 9904.412, actuarial gains and losses shall be identified separately from other unfunded actuarial liabilities.

(2) Actuarial gains and losses shall be amortized as required by 9904.412-50(a)(1)(v).

(i) For periods beginning prior to the "Applicability Date of the CAS Pension Harmonization Rule," actuarial gains and losses determined under a pension plan whose costs are measured by an immediate-gain actuarial cost method shall be amortized over a fifteen-year period in equal annual installments, beginning with the date as of which the actuarial valuation is made.

(ii) For periods beginning on or after the "Applicability Date of the CAS Pension Harmonization Rule," such actuarial gains and losses shall be amortized over a ten-year period in equal annual installments, beginning with the date as of which the actuarial valuation is made.

(iii) The installment for a cost accounting period shall consist of an element for amortization of the gain or loss, and an element for interest on the unamortized balance at the beginning of the period. If the actuarial gain or loss determined for a cost accounting period is not material, the entire gain or loss may be included as a component of the current or ensuing year's pension cost.

(3) Pension plan terminations and curtailments of benefits shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with 9904.413-50(c)(12).
