
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 99 - Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - Procurement Practices and Cost Accounting Standards
#### PART 9904 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
##### 9904.417-60 Illustrations.

(a) A contractor decided to build a major addition to this plant using both his own labor and outside subcontractors. It took 13 months to complete the building. The first 10 months of the construction period were in one cost accounting period. At the end of the cost accounting period the total charges, including cost of money computed in accordance with 9904.414, accumulated in the construction-in-progress account for this project amounted to $750,000. However, most of these construction costs were incurred towards the end of the cost accounting period. In developing a method for determining a representative investment amount, appropriate consideration must be given to the rate at which costs have been incurred in accordance with 9904.417-50(a)(2). Therefore, the contractor averaged the 10 month-end balances and determined that the average investment in the project was $245,000. Two cost of money rates were in effect during the 10-month period; their time-weighted average was determined to be 8.6 percent. Application of the 8.6 percent rate for ten-twelfths of a year to the representative balance of $245,000 resulted in the determination that $17,558 should be added to the construction-in-progress account in recognition of the cost of money related to this project in its first cost accounting period. The project was completed with the addition of $750,000 of additional costs during the first 3 months of the subsequent cost accounting period. The contractor considered the 3 month-end balances (which included the $17,558 capitalized cost of money described in the preceding paragraph) and determined that the representative balance was $1,234,000. The cost of money rate in effect during this 3-month period was 7.75 percent. Applying the rate of 7.75 percent for one-fourth of a year to the balance of $1,234,000 resulted in a determination that $23,909 should be added to the construction-in-progress account in recognition of the cost of money while under construction in the second cost accounting period. The capitalized project was put into service at the recognized cost of acquisition of $1,541,467 which consists of the "regular" costs of $1,500,000 plus $17,558 and $23,909 cost of money. This practice is in accordance with 9904.417-50(a) and other applicable provisions of the Standard.

(b) A contractor built a major addition with identical basic data to those described in 9904.417-60(a) except that the costs were incurred at a fairly uniform rate throughout the period. Because of the pattern of cost incurrence, the contractor used beginning and ending balances of the cost accounting period to find the representative amounts. For the first cost accounting period the representative investment amount was the average of the beginning and ending balances (zero and $750,000), or $375,000. Application of the average interest rate of 8.6 percent for ten-twelfths of a year resulted in the determination that $26,875 should be added to the construction-in-progress account in recognition of the cost of money related to this project in its first cost accounting period. During the subsequent 3 months the contractor used the representative balance of $1,151,875, derived by averaging the beginning balance of $776,875 ($750,000 "regular" cost plus the $26,875 imputed cost from the prior period) and the balance at the end, $1,526,875. Applying the 7.75 percent cost of money rate to this balance for a 3-month period resulted in a determination that $22,317 should be added to the construction-in-progress account in recognition of the cost of money while under construction in the second cost accounting period. The capitalized project was put into service at the recognized cost of acquisition of $1,549,192 which consists of the "regular" costs of $1,500,000 plus $26,875 and $22,317 imputed cost of money. This practice is in accordance with 9904.417-50(a) and other applicable provisions of the Standard.
