
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 99 - Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - Procurement Practices and Cost Accounting Standards
#### PART 9904 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
##### 9904.418-50 Techniques for application.
###### Use of preestablished rates for indirect costs.

(g)(1) Preestablished rates, based on either forecasted actual or standard cost, may be used in allocating an indirect cost pool.

(2) Preestablished rates shall reflect the costs and activities anticipated for the cost accounting period except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this subsection. Such preestablished rates shall be reviewed at least annually, and revised as necessary to reflect the anticipated conditions.

(3) The contracting parties may agree on preestablished rates which are not based on costs and activities anticipated for a cost accounting period. The contractor shall have and consistently apply written policies for the establishment of these rates.

(4) Under paragraphs (g) (2) and (3) of this subsection where variances of a cost accounting period are material, these variances shall be disposed of by allocating them to cost objectives in proportion to the costs previously allocated to these cost objectives by use of the preestablished rates.

(5) If preestablished rates are revised during a cost accounting period and if the variances accumulated to the time of the revision are significant, the costs allocated to that time shall be adjusted to the amounts which would have been allocated using the revised preestablished rates.
