
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 16 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 16.2 - Fixed-Price Contracts
###### 16.203-4 Contract clauses.
####### Adjustment based on established prices-semistandard supplies.

(b)(1) The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.216-3, Economic Price Adjustment-Semistandard Supplies, or an agency-prescribed clause as authorized in subparagraph (2) below, in solicitations and contracts when all of the following conditions apply:

(i) A fixed price contract is contemplated.

(ii) The requirement is for semistandard supplies for which the prices can be reasonably related to the prices of nearly equivalent standard supplies that have an established catalog or market price.

(iii) The contracting officer has made the determination specified in 16.203-3.

(2) If all conditions in subparagraph (b)(1) above apply and the contracting officer determines that the use of the clause at 52.216-3 is inappropriate, the contracting officer may use an agency-prescribed clause instead of the clause at 52.216-3.

(3) If the negotiated unit price reflects a net price after applying a trade discount from a catalog or list price, the contracting officer shall document in the contract file both the catalog or list price and the discount. (This does not apply to prompt payment or cash discounts.)

(4) Before entering into the contract, the contracting officer and contractor must agree in writing on the identity of the standard supplies and the corresponding line items to which the clause applies.

(5) If the supplies are standard, except for preservation, packaging, and packing requirements, the clause prescribed in 16.203-4(a), shall be used rather than this clause.

(6) The contracting officer may modify the clause by increasing the 10 percent limit on aggregate increases specified in 52.216-3(c)(1), upon approval by the chief of the contracting office.
