
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 16 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 16.7 - Agreements
###### 16.702 Basic agreements.
####### Application.

(b)A basic agreement should be used when a substantial number of separate contracts may be awarded to a contractor during a particular period and significant recurring negotiating problems have been experienced with the contractor. Basic agreements may be used with negotiated fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contracts.

(1) Basic agreements shall contain (i) clauses required for negotiated contracts by statute, executive order, and this regulation and (ii) other clauses prescribed in this regulation or agency acquisition regulations that the parties agree to include in each contract as applicable.

(2) Each basic agreement shall provide for discontinuing its future applicablity upon 30 days' written notice by either party.

(3) Each basic agreement shall be reviewed annually before the anniversary of its effective date and revised as necessary to conform to the requirements of this regulation. Basic agreements may need to be revised before the annual review due to mandatory statutory requirements. A basic agreement may be changed only by modifying the agreement itself and not by a contract incorporating the agreement.

(4) Discontinuing or modifying a basic agreement shall not affect any prior contract incorporating the basic agreement.

(5) Contracting officers of one agency should obtain and use existing basic agreements of another agency to the maximum practical extent.
