
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 16 - TYPES OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 16.7 - Agreements
###### 16.703 Basic ordering agreements.
####### Orders.

(d)A contracting officer representing any Government activity listed in a basic ordering agreement may issue orders for required supplies or services covered by that agreement.

(1) Before issuing an order under a basic ordering agreement, the contracting officer shall-

(i) Obtain competition in accordance with part 6;

(ii) If the order is being placed after competition, ensure that use of the basic ordering agreement is not prejudicial to other offerors; and

(iii) Sign or obtain any applicable justifications and approvals, and any determination and findings, in accordance with 1.602-1(b), and comply with other requirements, as if the order were a contract awarded independently of a basic ordering agreement.

(2) Contracting officers shall-

(i) Issue orders under basic ordering agreements on Optional Form (OF) 347, Order for Supplies or Services, or on any other appropriate contractual instrument;

(ii) Incorporate by reference the provisions of the basic ordering agreement;

(iii) If applicable, cite the authority under 6.302 in each order; and

(iv) Comply with 5.203 when synopsis is required by 5.201.

(3) The contracting officer shall neither make any final commitment nor authorize the contractor to begin work on an order under a basic ordering agreement until prices have been established, unless the order establishes a ceiling price limiting the Government's obligation and either-

(i) The basic ordering agreement provides adequate procedures for timely pricing of the order early in its performance period; or

(ii) The need for the supplies or services is compelling and unusually urgent (i.e., when the Government would be seriously injured, financially or otherwise, if the requirement is not met sooner than would be possible if prices were established before the work began). The contracting officer shall proceed with pricing as soon as practical. In no event shall an entire order be priced retroactively.
