
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 17 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 17.7 - Interagency Acquisitions: Acquisitions by Nondefense Agencies on Behalf of the Department of Defense
###### 17.703 Policy.
####### http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars

(2) Laws and regulations that apply to procurements of supplies and services made by DoD through other Federal agencies, including DoD financial management regulations, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), DoD class deviations, and the DFARS Procedures, Guidance, and Information (PGI). (The DFARS, DoD class deviations, and PGI are accessible at:).

(c) Within 30 days of the beginning of each fiscal year, submit nondefense agency certifications of compliance to the Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting at: Department of Defense, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment), Defense Pricing and Contracting, Contract Policy, Room 3B938, 3060 Defense Pentagon, Washington DC 20301-3060.

(d) The DoD acquisition official, as defined at 17.701, shall provide to the servicing nondefense agency contracting officer any DoD-unique terms, conditions, other related statutes, regulations, directives, and other applicable requirements for incorporation into the order or contract. In the event there are no DoD-unique requirements beyond the FAR, the DoD acquisition official shall so inform the servicing nondefense agency contracting officer in writing. Nondefense agency contracting officers are responsible for ensuring support provided in response to DoD's request complies with paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) Waiver. The limitation in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to the acquisition of supplies and services on behalf of DoD by a nondefense agency during any fiscal year for which the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainmenthas determined in writing that it is necessary in the interest of DoD to acquire supplies and services through the nondefense agency during the fiscal year. The written determination shall identify the acquisition categories to which the waiver applies.
