
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.306 Protesting a firm's status as a HUBZone small business concern.
####### The appeal must be in writing.

(k)The appeal must identify the protest determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific statement as to why the decision is erroneous or what significant fact the HUBZone Program Director failed to consider.

(l)(1) The party appealing the decision must provide notice of the appeal to-

(i) The contracting officer; and

(ii) The protested HUBZone small business concern or the original protester, as appropriate.

(2) SBA will not consider additional information or changed circumstances that were not disclosed at the time of the HUBZone Program Director's determination or that are based on disagreement with the findings and conclusions contained in the determination.

(m) The AA/GC&BD will make its decision within 5 business days of the receipt of the appeal, if practicable, and will base its decision only on the information and documentation in the protest record as supplemented by the appeal. SBA will provide a copy of the decision to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested HUBZone small business concern. The SBA decision, if received before award, will apply to the pending acquisition. The AA/GC&BD's decision is the final decision.
