
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.307 Protesting a firm's status as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(a) [Reserved]

(b)(1) For sole source acquisitions, the contracting officer or SBA may protest the apparently successful offeror's service-disabled veteran-owned small business status. For all other acquisitions, any interested party may protest the apparently successful offeror's service-disabled veteran-owned small business status.

(2) SBA's protest regulations are found in subpart D "Protests" at 13 CFR 125.24 through 125.28.

(c) Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and service-disabled veteran-owned small business status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests.

(d) All protests must be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest.

(1) SBA will consider protests challenging the service-disabled veteran-owned status or the ownership and control of a concern if-

(i) For status protests, the protester presents evidence supporting the contention that the owner(s) cannot provide documentation from the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense determinations, or the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration to show that they meet the definition of "service-disabled veteran" or "service disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability" as set forth in 13 CFR 125.12; or

(ii) For ownership and control protests, the protester presents evidence that the concern is not 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans. In the case of a veteran with a permanent and severe disability, the protester presents evidence that the concern is not controlled by the veteran, spouse, or permanent caregiver of such veteran; or

(iii) For set-aside or sole-source service contract or order ostensible subcontractor protests, the protester presents credible evidence of the alleged undue reliance on a small entity subcontractor that is not a similarly-situated entity as defined in 13 CFR 125.1, or credible evidence that the small non-similarly situated entity is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract. For allegations that the prime contractor is unduly reliant on an other-than-small subcontractor, see size protests at 19.302, and 13 CFR 121.103(h)(2), which treats the pair as joint venturers for size determination purposes (the "ostensible subcontractor rule").

(2) Assertions that a protested concern is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern, without setting forth specific facts or allegations, will not be considered by SBA (see 13 CFR 125.25(b)).
