
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.307 Protesting a firm's status as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
####### Protest by an interested party.

(e)(1) An offeror shall submit its protest to the contracting officer-

(i) To be received by close of business on the fifth business day after bid opening (in sealed bid acquisitions); or

(ii) To be received by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparently successful offeror for negotiated acquisitions).

(2) Any protest received after the designated time limits is untimely, unless it is from the contracting officer or SBA.

(f)(1) The contracting officer shall forward all protests to SBA. The protests are to be submitted to SBA's Director, Office of Government Contracting, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW., Washington, DC 20416 or by fax to 202-205-6390, Attn: Service-Disabled Veteran Status Protest.

(2) The protest shall include a referral letter written by the contracting officer with information pertaining to the solicitation. The referral letter must include the following information to allow SBA to determine timeliness and standing:

(i) The solicitation number (or an electronic link to or a paper copy of the solicitation).

(ii) The name, address, telephone number, fax number, and email address of the contracting officer.

(iii) Whether the contract was sole-source or set-aside.

(iv) Whether the protestor submitted an offer.

(v) Whether the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror.

(vi) When the protested concern submitted its offer.

(vii) Whether the acquisition was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures.

(viii) The bid opening date, if applicable.

(ix) The date the contracting officer received the protest.

(x) The date the protestor received notification about the apparent successful offeror, if applicable.

(xi) Whether a contract has been awarded.

(g) SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest.
