
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.307 Protesting a firm's status as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
####### After SBA decision.

(i)SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of its determination. The determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal by SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) pursuant to 13 CFR part 134.

(1) If the contracting officer has withheld contract award and SBA has determined that the protested concern is an eligible SDVOSB or dismissed all protests against the protested concern, the contracting officer may award the contract to the protested concern. If OHA subsequently overturns the SBA Director for Government Contracting's determination or dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to the procurement in question.

(2) If the contracting officer has withheld contract award, SBA has sustained the protest and determined that the concern is not an SDVOSB, and no OHA appeal has been filed, then the contracting officer shall not award the contract to the protested concern.

(3) If the contracting officer has made a written determination in accordance with (h)(1)(ii) or (h)(3) of this section, the contract has been awarded, and SBA's ruling sustaining the protest is received after award-

(i) The contracting officer shall terminate the contract, unless the contracting officer has made a written determination that termination is not in the best interests of the Government. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise any options or award further task or delivery orders;

(ii) The contracting officer shall update the FPDS to reflect the final SBA decision; and

(iii) The concern must remove its designation in the System for Award Management (SAM) as a SDVOSB concern, and shall not submit an offer as a SDVOSB concern, until SBA issues a decision that the ineligibility is resolved.

(4) If the contracting officer has made a written determination in accordance with (h)(1)(ii) or (h)(3) of this section and awarded the contract to the protested firm, SBA has sustained the protest and determined that the concern is not a SDVOSB, and a timely OHA appeal has been filed, then the contracting officer shall consider whether performance can be suspended until an OHA decision is rendered.

(5) If OHA affirms the SBA Director for Government Contracting's determination finding the protested concern is ineligible-

(i) The contracting officer shall terminate the contract unless the contracting officer has made a written determination that it is not in the best interest of the Government. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise any options or award further task or delivery orders;

(ii) The contracting officer shall update the FPDS to reflect OHA's decision; and

(iii) The concern shall remove its designation in SAM as a SDVOSB concern, until SBA issues a decision that the ineligibility is resolved or OHA finds the concern is eligible on appeal.

(6) A concern found to be ineligible may not submit future offers as an SDVOSB concern until the concern demonstrates to SBA's satisfaction that it has overcome the reason for the protest and SBA issues a decision to this effect.
