
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.308 Protesting a firm's status as an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concern or women-owned small business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program.
####### Definition. Interested party,

(a)as used in this section, has the meaning given in 13 CFR 127.102.

(b)(1) For sole source acquisitions, the contracting officer or SBA may protest the offeror's status as an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern or as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. For all other acquisitions, an interested party (see 13 CFR 127.102) may protest the apparent successful offeror's EDWOSB or WOSB status.

(2) SBA's protest regulations are found in subpart F "Protests" at 13 CFR 127.600 through 127.605.

(c) Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and WOSB or EDWOSB status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests.

(d) All protests shall be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest.

(1) SBA will consider protests challenging the status of a concern if-

(i) The protest presents evidence that the concern is not at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens;

(ii) The protest presents evidence that the concern is not at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more economically disadvantaged women who are United States citizens, when it is in connection with an EDWOSB contract; or

(iii) For WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source service contracts or orders, the protest presents evidence that the prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small entity subcontractor that is not a similarly-situated entity as defined in 13 CFR 125.1, or a protest alleging that such subcontractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of a set-aside or sole-source WOSB or EDWOSB contract. For allegations that the prime contractor is unduly reliant on an other-than-small subcontractor, see size protests at 19.302, and 13 CFR 121.103(h)(2), which treats the pair as joint venturers for size determination purposes (the "ostensible subcontractor rule").

(2) Assertions that a protested concern is not an EDWOSB or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, without setting forth specific facts or allegations, will not be considered by SBA (see 13 CFR 127.603(a)).
