
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.308 Protesting a firm's status as an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concern or women-owned small business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program.
####### wosbprotest@sba.gov.

(f)(1) The contracting officer shall forward all protests to SBA. The protests are to be submitted to SBA's Director for Government Contracting by email at

(2) The protest shall include a referral letter written by the contracting officer with information pertaining to the solicitation. The referral letter must include the following information to allow SBA to determine timeliness and standing:

(i) The solicitation number or electronic link to or a paper copy of the solicitation.

(ii) The name, address, telephone number, email address, and facsimile number of the contracting officer.

(iii) Whether the protestor submitted an offer.

(iv) Whether the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror.

(v) When the protested concern submitted its offer.

(vi) Whether the acquisition was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures.

(vii) The bid opening date, if applicable.

(viii) The date the contracting officer received the protest.

(ix) The date the protestor received notification about the apparent successful offeror, if applicable.

(x) Whether a contract has been awarded.

(g) SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest.
