
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs
###### 19.309 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a)(1) Insert the provision at 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations, in solicitations exceeding the micro-purchase threshold when the contract is for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting officer has applied this part in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii).

(2) Use the provision with its Alternate I in solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

(3) Use the provision with its Alternate II in solicitations that will result in a multiple-award contract with more than one NAICS code assigned. This is authorized for solicitations issued after October 1, 2025 (see 19.102(b)).

(b) When contracting by sealed bidding, insert the provision at 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids, in solicitations when the contract is for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting officer has applied this part in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii).

(c)(1) Insert the clause at 52.219-28, Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation, in solicitations and contracts exceeding the micro-purchase threshold when the contract is for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting officer has applied this part in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii).

(2) Use the clause with its Alternate I in solicitations and the resulting multiple-award contracts with more than one NAICS code. This is authorized for solicitations issued after October 1, 2025 (see 19.102(b)).
