
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.5 - Small Business Total Set-Asides, Partial Set-Asides, and Reserves
###### 19.505 Limitations on subcontracting and nonmanufacturer rule.
####### Limitations on subcontracting.

(b)(1)A small business concern subject to the limitations on subcontracting is required to comply with the following:

(i) For a contract or order assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for services (except construction), the concern will not pay more than 50 percent of the amount paid by the Government for contract performance to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the concern's 50 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. When a contract includes both services and supplies, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the service portion of the contract.

(ii) For a contract or order assigned a NAICS code for supplies or products (other than a procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies or products), the concern will not pay more than 50 percent of the amount paid by the Government for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the concern's 50 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. When a contract includes both supplies and services, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the supply portion of the contract.

(iii) For a contract or order assigned a NAICS code for general construction, the concern will not pay more than 85 percent of the amount paid by the Government for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the concern's 85 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded.

(iv) For a contract or order assigned a NAICS code for construction by special trade contractors, the concern will not pay more than 75 percent of the amount paid by the Government for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the concern's 75 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded.
