
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.7 - The Small Business Subcontracting Program
###### 19.705-6 Postaward responsibilities of the contracting officer.
####### www.esrs.gov

(3) Either acknowledge receipt of or reject the reports in accordance with subpart 19.7, 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, and the eSRS instructions ().

(i) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the contracting officer who approved the commercial plan.

(ii) If a report is rejected, the contracting officer must provide an explanation for the rejection to allow the prime contractor the opportunity to respond specifically to identified deficiencies.

(g) Evaluate the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, to include the following:

(1) Assess whether the prime contractor made a good faith effort to comply with its small business subcontracting plan. See 19.705-7(b) for more information on the determination of good faith effort.

(2) Assess the prime contractor's written explanation concerning the prime contractor's failure to use a small business concern in the performance of the contract in the same scope, amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the bid or proposal, if applicable.

(h) Initiate action to assess liquidated damages in accordance with 19.705-7 upon a recommendation by the administrative contracting officer, if one is assigned, or receipt of other reliable evidence to indicate that assessing liquidated damages is warranted.

(i) Take action to enforce the terms of the contract upon receipt of a notice from the contract administration office under 19.706(f).

(j) Acknowledge receipt of or reject the ISR and the SSR in the eSRS. Acknowledging receipt does not mean acceptance or approval of the report. The report shall be rejected if it is not adequately completed, for instance, if there are errors, omissions, or incomplete data. Failure to meet the goals of the subcontracting plan is not a valid reason for rejecting the report.
