
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.8 - Contracting With the Small Business Administration (the 8(a) Program)
###### 19.803 Selecting acquisitions for the 8(a) program.

Through their cooperative efforts, the SBA and an agency match the agency's requirements with the capabilities of 8(a) participants to establish a basis for the agency to contract with the SBA under the program. Selection is initiated in one of three ways:

(a) The SBA advises the contracting activity of an 8(a) participant's capabilities through a search letter and requests the contracting activity to identify acquisitions to support the participant's business plans. In these instances, the SBA will provide at a minimum the following information in order to enable the contracting activity to match an acquisition to the participant's capabilities:

(1) Identification of the participant and its owners.

(2) Background information on the participant, including any and all information pertaining to the participant's technical ability and capacity to perform.

(3) The participant's present production capacity and related facilities.

(4) The extent to which contracting assistance is needed in the present and the future, described in terms that will enable the agency to relate the participant's plans to present and future agency requirements.

(5) If construction is involved, the request shall also include the following:

(i) A participant's capabilities in and qualifications for accomplishing various categories of construction work typically found in North American Industrial Category System subsector 236 (construction of buildings), subsector 237 (heavy and civil engineering construction), or subsector 238 (specialty trade contractors).
