
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.8 - Contracting With the Small Business Administration (the 8(a) Program)
###### 19.804-2 Agency offering.

(a) After completing its evaluation, the contracting office shall notify the SBA of the extent of its plans to place 8(a) contracts with the SBA for specific quantities of items or work, including 8(a) contracts that are reserved in accordance with 19.503. The notification, referred to as an offering letter, shall identify the time frames within which resulting 8(a) awards must be completed in order for the agency to meet its responsibilities. The offering letter shall also contain the following information applicable to each prospective contract:

(1) A description of the work to be performed or items to be delivered, and a copy of the statement of work, if available.

(2) The estimated period of performance.

(3) The NAICS code that applies to the principal nature of the acquisition.

(4) The anticipated dollar value of the requirement, including options, if any.

(5) Any special restrictions or geographical limitations on the requirement (for construction, include the location of the work to be performed).

(6) Any special capabilities or disciplines needed for contract performance.

(7) The type of contract anticipated.

(8) The acquisition history, if any, of the requirement, including the names and addresses of any small business contractors that have performed this requirement during the previous 24 months.

(9) A statement that prior to the offering no solicitation for the specific acquisition has been issued as a small business, HUBZone, service-disabled veteran-owned small business set-aside, or a set-aside under the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program, and that no other public communication (such as a notice through the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE)) has been made showing the contracting agency's clear intention to set-aside the acquisition for small business, HUBZone small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, or a set-aside under the WOSB Program.

(10) Identification of any particular 8(a) participant designated for consideration, including a brief justification, such as-

(i) The 8(a) participant, through its own efforts, marketed the requirement and caused it to be reserved for the 8(a) program; or

(ii) The acquisition is a follow-on or renewal contract and the nominated 8(a) participant is the incumbent.

(11) Bonding requirements, if applicable.

(12) Identification of all 8(a) participants which have expressed an interest in being considered for the acquisition.

(13) Identification of all SBA field offices that have asked for the acquisition for the 8(a) program.

(14) A request, if appropriate, that a requirement with an estimated contract value under the applicable competitive threshold be awarded as an 8(a) competitive contract (see 19.805-1(d)).

(15) A request, if appropriate, that a requirement with a contract value over the applicable competitive threshold be awarded as a sole source contract (see 19.805-1(b)).

(16) Any other pertinent and reasonably available data.

(b)(1) An agency offering a construction requirement for which no specific offeror is nominated should submit it to the SBA District Office for the geographical area where the work is to be performed.

(2) An agency offering a construction requirement on behalf of a specific offeror should submit it to the SBA District Office servicing that concern.

(3) Sole source requirements, other than construction, should be forwarded directly to the district office that services the nominated 8(a) participant. If the contracting officer is not nominating a specific 8(a) participant, the offering letter should be forwarded to the district office servicing the geographical area in which the contracting office is located.

(c) All requirements for 8(a) competition, other than construction, should be forwarded to the district office servicing the geographical area in which the contracting office is located. All requirements for 8(a) construction competition should be forwarded to the district office servicing the geographical area in which all or the major portion of the construction is to be performed. All requirements, including construction, must be synopsized through the GPE. For construction, the synopsis must include the geographical area of the competition set forth in the SBA's acceptance letter.
