
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.8 - Contracting With the Small Business Administration (the 8(a) Program)
###### 19.809-2 Limitations on subcontracting and nonmanufacturer rule.
####### Waiver.

(c)The applicable SBA District Director may waive the provisions in paragraph (b)(1) requiring a participant to comply with the limitations on subcontracting for each period of performance or for each order. Instead, the SBA District Director may permit the participant to subcontract in excess of the limitations on subcontracting where the SBA District Director makes a written determination that larger amounts of subcontracting are essential during certain stages of performance.

(1) The 8(a) participant is required to provide the SBA District Director written assurance that the participant will ultimately comply with the requirements of this section prior to contract completion. The contracting officer shall review the written assurance and inform the 8(a) participant of their concurrence or nonconcurrence. The 8(a) participant can only submit the written assurance to the SBA District Director upon concurrence by the contracting officer.

(2) The contracting officer does not have the authority to waive the provisions of this section requiring an 8(a) participant to comply with the limitations on subcontracting for each period of performance or order, even if the agency has a Partnership Agreement with SBA.

(3) Where the 8(a) participant does not ultimately comply with the limitations on subcontracting by the end of the contract, SBA will not grant future waivers for the 8(a) participant.
