
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 19 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 19.15 - Women-Owned Small Business Program
###### 19.1505 Set-aside procedures.
####### WOSBpendingcertification@sba.gov,

(f) Prior to award, the contracting officer shall verify the apparently successful offeror is certified in SAM, or has a pending application for certification in DSBS. If the apparently successful offeror's EDWOSB or WOSB certification is pending in DSBS, the contracting officer shall notify SBA's Director/Government Contracting by email atand request SBA's status determination. The contracting officer shall provide SBA with the offeror's name, unique entity identifier, type of set-aside, NAICS code, and solicitation number.

(1) Within 15 calendar days from the date of the contracting officer's notification, SBA will make a determination regarding the offeror's status as an EDWOSB or WOSB eligible under the WOSB program.

(2) If the contracting officer does not receive a determination from SBA within 15 calendar days, the contracting officer at their discretion, may provide SBA additional time to make a determination, or may proceed with award to the next highest evaluated offeror.

(3) The contracting officer shall not make award to an offeror who is not a certified EDWOSB or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program.

(g) The contracting officer may make an award, if only one acceptable offer is received from a qualified EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program.

(h) If no acceptable offers are received from an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, the set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, must be considered for set aside in accordance with 19.203 and subpart 19.5.

(i) The SBA procurement center representative (PCR) may recommend use of the WOSB Program. If the contracting officer rejects a recommendation by SBA's PCR-

(1) The contracting officer shall notify the PCR as soon as practicable;

(2) SBA shall notify the contracting officer of its intent to appeal the contracting officer's decision no later than five business days after receiving notice of the contracting officer's decision;

(3) The contracting officer shall suspend further action regarding the procurement until the head of the agency issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the head of the agency makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect the interests of the United States compel award of the contract;

(4) Within 15 business days of SBA's notification to the head of the contracting activity, SBA shall file a formal appeal to the head of the agency, or the appeal will be determined withdrawn; and

(5) The head of the agency, or designee, shall specify in writing the reasons for a denial of an appeal brought under this section.
