
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.4 - Labor Standards for Contracts Involving Construction
###### 22.407 Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

(a) Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts in excess of $2,000 for construction within the United States:

(1) 52.222-6, Construction Wage Rate Requirements.

(2) 52.222-7, Withholding of Funds.

(3) 52.222-8, Payrolls and Basic Records.

(4) 52.222-9, Apprentices and Trainees.

(5) 52.222-10, Compliance with Copeland Act Requirements.

(6) 52.222-11, Subcontracts (Labor Standards).

(7) 52.222-12, Contract Termination-Debarment.

(8) 52.222-13, Compliance with Construction Wage Rate Requirements and Related Regulations.

(9) 52.222-14, Disputes Concerning Labor Standards.

(10) 52.222-15, Certification of Eligibility.

(b) Insert the clause at 52.222-16, Approval of Wage Rates, in solicitations and contracts in excess of $2,000 for cost-reimbursement construction to be performed within the United States, except for contracts with a State or political subdivision thereof.

(c) A contract that is not primarily for construction may contain a requirement for some construction work to be performed in the United States. If under 22.402(b) the requirements of this subpart apply to the construction work, insert in such solicitations and contracts the applicable construction labor standards clauses required in this section and identify the item or items of construction work to which the clauses apply.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Insert the clause at 52.222-30, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (None or Separately Specified Pricing Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be-

(1) A fixed-price contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract, and the contracting officer determines the most appropriate contract price adjustment method is the method at 22.404-12(c)(1) or (2); or

(2) A cost-reimbursable type contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract.

(f) Insert the clause at 52.222-31, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Percentage Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be a fixed-price contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract, and the contracting officer determines the most appropriate contract price adjustment method is the method at 22.404-12(c)(3).

(g) Insert the clause at 52.222-32, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Actual Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be a fixed-price contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract, and the contracting officer determines the most appropriate method to establish contract price is the method at 22.404-12(c)(4).

(h) Insert the provision at 52.222-5, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Secondary Site of the Work, in solicitations in excess of $2,000 for construction within the United States.
