
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards
###### 22.1003-4 Administrative limitations, variations, tolerances, and exemptions.

(a) The Secretary of Labor may provide reasonable limitations and may make rules and regulations allowing reasonable variations, tolerances, and exemptions to and from any or all provisions of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute other than 41 U.S.C. 6707(f). These will be made only in special circumstances where it has been determined that the limitation, variation, tolerance, or exemption is necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid the serious impairment of Government business, and is in accord with the remedial purpose of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute to protect prevailing labor standards (41 U.S.C. 6707(b)). See 29 CFR 4.123 for a listing of administrative exemptions, tolerances, and variations. Requests for limitations, variances, tolerances, and exemptions from the Service Contract Labor Standards statute shall be submitted in writing through contracting channels and the agency labor advisor to the Wage and Hour Administrator.

(b) In addition to the statutory exemptions cited in 22.1003-3 of this subsection, the Secretary of Labor has exempted the following types of contracts from all provisions of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute:

(1) Contracts entered into by the United States with common carriers for the carriage of mail by rail, air (except air star routes), bus, and ocean vessel, where such carriage is performed on regularly scheduled runs of the trains, airplanes, buses, and vessels over regularly established routes and accounts for an insubstantial portion of the revenue therefrom.

(2) Any contract entered into by the U.S. Postal Service with an individual owner-operator for mail service if it is not contemplated at the time the contract is made that the owner-operator will hire any service employee to perform the services under the contract except for short periods of vacation time or for unexpected contingencies or emergency situations such as illness, or accident.

(3) Contracts for the carriage of freight or personnel if such carriage is subject to rates covered by section 10721 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
