
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards
###### 22.1003-4 Administrative limitations, variations, tolerances, and exemptions.
####### Conditions.

(2)The exemption at paragraph (c)(1) of this subsection applies if all the following conditions are met for a contract (or a subcontract):

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under the contract are used regularly for other than Government purposes and are sold or traded by the contractor in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations.

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment. As defined at 29 CFR 4.123(e)(1)(ii)(B)-

(A) An established catalog price is a price included in a catalog price list, schedule, or other form that is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or the contractor, is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and states prices at which sales currently, or were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the general public.

(B) An established market price is a current price, established in the usual course of trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain, which can be substantiated from sources independent of the manufacturer or contractor.

(iii) The contractor will use the same compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract as the contractor uses for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

(iv) The apparent successful offeror certifies to the conditions in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this subsection. (See 22.1006(e).)
