
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards
###### 22.1003-6 Repair distinguished from remanufacturing of equipment.

(a) Contracts principally for remanufacturing of equipment which is so extensive as to be equivalent to manufacturing are subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 65 rather than to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. Remanufacturing shall be deemed to be manufacturing when the criteria in either paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section are met.

(1) Major overhaul of an item, piece of equipment, or materiel which is degraded or inoperable, and under which all of the following conditions exist:

(i) The item or equipment is required to be completely or substantially torn down into individual component parts.

(ii) Substantially all of the parts are reworked, rehabilitated, altered and/or replaced.

(iii) The parts are reassembled so as to furnish a totally rebuilt item or piece of equipment.

(iv) Manufacturing processes similar to those which were used in the manufacturing of the item or piece of equipment are utilized.

(v) The disassembled components, if usable (except for situations where the number of items or pieces of equipment involved are too few to make it practicable) are commingled with existing inventory and, as such, lose their identification with respect to a particular piece of equipment.

(vi) The items or equipment overhauled are restored to original life expectancy, or nearly so.

(vii) Such work is performed in a facility owned or operated by the contractor.

(2) Major modification of an item, piece of equipment, or material which is wholly or partially obsolete, and under which all of the following conditions exist:

(i) The item or equipment is required to be completely or substantially torn down.

(ii) Outmoded parts are replaced.

(iii) The item or equipment is rebuilt or reassembled.

(iv) The contract work results in the furnishing of a substantially modified item in a usable and serviceable condition.

(v) The work is performed in a facility owned or operated by the contractor.

(b) Remanufacturing does not include the repair of damaged or broken equipment which does not require a complete teardown, overhaul, and rebuild as described in subparagraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this subsection, or the periodic and routine maintenance, preservation, care, adjustment, upkeep, or servicing of equipment to keep it in usable, serviceable, working order. Such contracts typically are billed on an hourly rate (labor plus materials and parts) basis. Any contract principally for this type of work is subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. Examples of such work include the following:

(1) Repair of an automobile, truck, or other vehicle, construction equipment, tractor, crane, aerospace, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, electric motors, and ground powered industrial or vehicular equipment.

(2) Repair of typewriters and other office equipment (but see 22.1003-4(c)(1) and (d)(1)(iv)).

(3) Repair of appliances, radios, television sets, calculators, and other electronic equipment.

(4) Inspecting, testing, calibration, painting, packaging, lubrication, tune-up, or replacement of internal parts of equipment listed in subparagraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this subsection.

(5) Reupholstering, reconditioning, repair, and refinishing of furniture.
