
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards
###### 22.1008-2 Successorship with incumbent contractor collective bargaining agreement.
####### SAM.gov

(3) The contracting officer may also use the e98 process on Wage Determinations atto request that the Department of Labor prepare the cover wage determination. The Department of Labor's response to the e98 may include a request for the contracting officer to submit a complete copy of the collective bargaining agreement. Any questions regarding the applicability of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute to a collective bargaining agreement should be directed to the agency labor advisor.

(e)(1) 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) will not apply if the Secretary of Labor determines (i) after a hearing, that the wages and fringe benefits in the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a similar character in the locality, or (ii) that the wages and fringe benefits in the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement are not the result of arm's length negotiations (see 22.1013 and 22.1021). The Department of Labor (DOL) has concluded that contingent collective bargaining agreement provisions that attempt to limit a contractor's obligations by means such as requiring issuance of a wage determination by the DOL, requiring inclusion of the wage determination in the contract, or requiring the Government to adequately reimburse the contractor, generally reflect a lack of arm's length negotiations.

(2) If the contracting officer's review (see 22.1013) indicates that monetary provisions of the collective bargaining agreement may be substantially at variance or may not have been reached as a result of arm's length bargaining, the contracting officer shall immediately contact the agency labor advisor to consider if further action is warranted.

(f) If the services are being furnished at more than one location and the collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits are different at different locations or do not apply to one or more locations, the contracting officer shall identify the locations to which the agreements apply.
