
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards
###### 22.1009-4 All possible places of performance not identified.

If the contracting officer believes that there may be offerors interested in performing in unidentified places or areas, the contracting officer may use the following procedures:

(a) Include the following information in the synopsis and solicitation:

(1) That the place of performance is unknown.

(2) The possible places or areas of performance that the contracting officer has already identified.

(3) That the contracting officer will obtain wage determinations for additional possible places of performance if asked to do so in writing.

(4) The time and date by which offerors must notify the contracting officer of additional places of performance.

(b) Include the information required by paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(4) of this section in the clause at 52.222-49, Service Contract Labor Standards-Place of Performance Unknown (see 22.1006(f)). The closing date for receipt of offerors' requests for wage determinations for additional possible places of performance should allow reasonable time for potential offerors to review the solicitation and determine their interest in competing. Generally, 10 to 15 days from the date of issuance of the solicitation may be considered a reasonable period of time.

(c) The procedures in 14.304 shall apply to late receipt of offerors' requests for wage determinations for additional places of performance. However, late receipt of an offeror's request for a wage determination for additional places of performance does not preclude the offeror's competing for the proposed acquisition.

(d) If the contracting officer receives any timely requests for wage determinations for additional places of performance the contracting officer shall-

(1) Obtain wage determinations for the additional places of performance; and

(2) Amend the solicitation to include all wage determinations and, if necessary, extend the time for submission of final offers.

(e) If the successful offeror did not make a timely request for a wage determination and will perform in a place of performance for which the contracting officer therefore did not request a wage determination, the contracting officer shall-

(1) Award the contract;

(2) Obtain a wage determination; and

(3) Incorporate the wage determination in the contract, retroactive to the date of contract award and with no adjustment in contract price, pursuant to the clause at 52.222-49, Service Contract Labor Standards-Place of Performance Unknown.
