
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.14 - Employment of Workers with Disabilities
###### 22.1403 Waivers.

(a) The Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of the U.S. Department of Labor (Director of OFCCP), may waive the application of any or all of the terms of the clause at 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities, for-

(1) Any contract if a waiver is deemed to be in the national interest; or

(2) Groups or categories of contracts if a waiver is in the national interest and it is-

(i) Impracticable to act on each request individually; and

(ii) Determined that the waiver will substantially contribute to convenience in administering the Act.

(b) The head of an agency may waive any requirement in this subpart when it is determined that the contract is essential to the national security, and that its award without complying with such requirements is necessary to the national security. Upon making such a determination, the head of the agency shall notify the Director of OFCCP in writing within 30 days.

(c) The contracting officer shall submit requests for waivers in accordance with agency procedures.

(d) A waiver granted for a particular class of contracts may be withdrawn for any contract within that class whenever considered necessary by the Director of OFCCP to achieve the purposes of the Act. The withdrawal shall not apply to contracts awarded before the withdrawal. The withdrawal shall not apply to solicitations under any means of formal sealed bidding unless it is made more than 10 days before the date set for bid opening.
