
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.21 - Establishing Paid Sick Leave for Federal Contractors
###### 22.2105 Paid sick leave for Federal contractors and subcontractors.
####### Maximum accrual, carryover, reinstatement, and payment for unused leave.

(b)(1) Contractors may limit the amount of paid sick leave employees are permitted to accrue to not less than 56 hours in each accrual year (see 29 CFR 13.5(b)(1)).

(2) Paid sick leave shall carry over from one accrual year to the next. Paid sick leave carried over from the previous accrual year shall not count toward any limit the contractor sets on annual accrual (see 29 CFR 13.5(b)(2)).

(3) Contractors may limit the amount of paid sick leave an employee is permitted to have available for use at any point to not less than 56 hours (see 29 CFR 13.5(b)(3)).

(4) Contractors are required to reinstate paid sick leave for employees only when rehired by the same contractor within 12 months after a job separation (see 29 CFR 13.5(b)(4)).

(5) Nothing in E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR part 13 requires contractors to make a financial payment to an employee for accrued paid sick leave that has not been used upon a separation from employment. If a contractor nevertheless makes such a payment in an amount equal to or greater than the value of the pay and benefits the employee would have received pursuant to 29 CFR 13.5(c)(3) had the employee used the paid sick leave, the contractor is relieved of the obligation to reinstate an employee's accrued paid sick leave upon rehiring the employee within 12 months of the separation pursuant to 29 CFR 13.5(b)(4) (see 29 CFR 13.5(b)(5)).
