
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.21 - Establishing Paid Sick Leave for Federal Contractors
###### 22.2109 Enforcement of Executive Order 13706 paid sick leave requirements.
####### Complaints.

(b)(1) Complaints are filed with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division and may be brought by any person (including the employee), entity, or organization that believes a violation of this subpart has occurred.

(2) The identity of any individual who makes a written or oral statement as a complaint or in the course of an investigation, as well as portions of the statement which would reveal the individual's identity, shall not be disclosed in any manner to anyone other than Federal officials without the prior consent of the individual, unless otherwise authorized by law.

(3) If the contracting agency receives a complaint or is notified that the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division has received a complaint, the contracting officer shall report, within 14 days, to the Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, Office of Government Contracts, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Room S3006, Washington, DC 20210, all of the following information that is available without conducting an investigation:

(i) The complaint or description of the alleged violation.

(ii) Available statements by the employee, contractor, or any other person regarding the alleged violation.

(iii) Evidence that clause 52.222-62, Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706, was included in the contract.

(iv) Information concerning known settlement negotiations between the parties, if applicable.

(v) Any other relevant facts known to the contracting officer or other information requested by the Wage and Hour Division.
