
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 22 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 22.21 - Establishing Paid Sick Leave for Federal Contractors
###### 22.2109 Enforcement of Executive Order 13706 paid sick leave requirements.
####### Remedies for interference.

(5)(i) When the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division determines that a contractor has interfered with an employee's accrual or use of paid sick leave in violation of 29 CFR 13.6(a), the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division will notify the contractor and the relevant contracting agency of the interference and request that the contractor remedy the violation.

(ii) If the contractor does not remedy the violation, the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division shall direct the contractor to provide any appropriate relief to the affected employee(s) in the investigative findings letter issued pursuant to 29 CFR 13.51. Such relief may include-

(A) Any pay and/or benefits denied or lost by reason of the violation;

(B) Other actual monetary losses sustained as a direct result of the violation; or

(C) Appropriate equitable or other relief.

(iii) Payment of liquidated damages in an amount equaling any monetary relief may also be directed unless such amount is reduced by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division because the violation was in good faith and the contractor had reasonable grounds for believing it had not violated the E.O. or 29 CFR part 13.

(iv) The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division may additionally direct that payments due on the contract or any other contract between the contractor and the Federal Government be withheld as may be necessary to provide any appropriate monetary relief. Upon the final order of the Secretary of Labor that monetary relief is due, the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division may direct the relevant contracting agency to transfer the withheld funds to the Department of Labor for disbursement.
