
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 25 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 25.7 - Prohibited Sources
###### 25.703-4 Waiver.

(a) An agency or contractor seeking a waiver of the requirements of 25.703-2 or 25.703-3, consistent with section 6(b)(5) of the Iran Sanctions Act or 22 U.S.C. 8551(b), respectively, and the Presidential Memorandum of September 23, 2010 (75 FR 67025), shall submit the request to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, allowing sufficient time for review and approval.

(b) Agencies may request a waiver on an individual or class basis; however, waivers are not indefinite and can be cancelled, if warranted.

(1) A class waiver may be requested only when the class of supplies or equipment is not available from any other source and it is in the national interest.

(2) Prior to submitting the waiver request, the request must be reviewed and cleared by the agency head.

(c) In general, all waiver requests should include the following information:

(1) Agency name, complete mailing address, and point of contact name, telephone number, and email address.

(2) Offeror's name, complete mailing address, and point of contact name, telephone number, and email address.

(3) Description/nature of product or service.

(4) The total cost and length of the contract.

(5) Justification, with market research demonstrating that no other offeror can provide the product or service and stating why the product or service must be procured from this offeror.

(i) If the offeror exports sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran, provide rationale why it is in the national interest for the President to waive the prohibition on contracting with this offeror, as required by 22 U.S.C. 8551(b).

(ii) If the offeror conducts activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act or engages in any transaction that exceeds the threshold at 25.703-2(a)(2) with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide rationale why it is essential to the national security interests of the United States for the President to waive the prohibition on contracting with this offeror, as required by section 6(b)(5) of the Iran Sanctions Act.
