
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 25 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 25.11 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses
###### 25.1102 Acquisition of construction.

When using funds other than those appropriated under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act), follow the prescriptions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Otherwise, follow the prescription in paragraph (e).

(a) Insert the clause at 52.225-9, Buy American-Construction Materials, in solicitations and contracts for construction that is performed in the United States valued at less than $7,032,000.

(1) List in paragraph (b)(2) of the clause all foreign construction material excepted from the requirements of the Buy American statute.

(2) If the head of the agency determines that a higher percentage is appropriate, substitute the higher evaluation percentage in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of the clause.

(3) The contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I to reflect the domestic content threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement executive allows for application of an alternate domestic content test for the contract in accordance with 25.201(c). For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2022 or 2023, the contracting officer shall insert "60" in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of "domestic construction material." For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer shall insert "65". For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the contracting officer shall insert "75".

(b)(1) Insert the provision at 52.225-10, Notice of Buy American Requirement-Construction Materials, in solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-9.
