
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 25 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 25.11 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses
###### 25.1102 Acquisition of construction.
####### Alternate I.

(2) If insufficient time is available to process a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute before receipt of offers, use the provision with its

(c) Insert the clause at 52.225-11, Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements, in solicitations and contracts for construction that is performed in the United States valued at $7,032,000 or more.

(1) List in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause all foreign construction material excepted from the requirements of the Buy American statute, other than designated country construction material.

(2) If the head of the agency determines that a higher percentage is appropriate, substitute the higher evaluation percentage in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of the clause.

(3) For acquisitions valued at $7,032,000 or more, but less than $12,001,460, use the clause with its Alternate I. List in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause all foreign construction material excepted from the requirements of the Buy American statute, unless the excepted foreign construction material is from a designated country other than Bahrain, Mexico, and Oman.

(4) The contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate II to reflect the domestic content threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement executive allows for application of an alternate domestic content test for the contract in accordance with 25.201(c). For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2022 or 2023, the contracting officer shall insert "60" in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of "domestic construction material." For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded in calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer shall insert "65". For contracts that the contracting officer estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the contracting officer shall insert "75".

(d)(1) Insert the provision at 52.225-12, Notice of Buy American Requirement-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements, in solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-11.
