
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 27 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 27.3 - Patent Rights under Government Contracts
###### 27.302 Policy.
####### Special conditions for nonprofit organizations' preference for small business concerns.

(h)(1) Nonprofit organization contractors are expected to use reasonable efforts to attract small business licensees (see paragraph (i)(4) of the clause at 52.227-11, Patent Rights-Ownership by the Contractor). What constitutes reasonable efforts to attract small business licensees will vary with the circumstances and the nature, duration, and expense of efforts needed to bring the invention to the market.

(2) Small business concerns that believe a nonprofit organization is not meeting its obligations under the clause may report the matter to the Secretary of Commerce. To the extent deemed appropriate, the Secretary of Commerce will undertake informal investigation of the matter, and may discuss or negotiate with the nonprofit organization ways to improve its efforts to meet its obligations under the clause. However, in no event will the Secretary of Commerce intervene in ongoing negotiations or contractor decisions concerning the licensing of a specific subject invention. These investigations, discussions, and negotiations involving the Secretary of Commerce will be in coordination with other interested agencies, including the Small Business Administration. In the case of a contract for the operation of a Government-owned, contractor-operated research or production facility, the Secretary of Commerce will coordinate with the agency responsible for the facility prior to any discussions or negotiations with the contractor.
