
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 27 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 27.3 - Patent Rights under Government Contracts
###### 27.302 Policy.
####### Minimum rights to contractor.

(i)(1) When the Government acquires title to a subject invention, the contractor is normally granted a revocable, nonexclusive, paid-up license to that subject invention throughout the world. The contractor's license extends to any of its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates within the corporate structure of which the contractor is a part and includes the right to grant sublicenses to the extent the contractor was legally obligated to do so at the time of contract award. The contracting officer shall approve or disapprove, in writing, any contractor request to transfer its licenses. No approval is necessary when the transfer is to the successor of that part of the contractor's business to which the subject invention pertains.

(2) In response to a third party's proper application for an exclusive license, the contractor's domestic license may be revoked or modified to the extent necessary to achieve expeditious practical application of the subject invention. The application shall be submitted in accordance with the applicable provisions in 37 CFR part 404 and agency licensing regulations. The contractor's license will not be revoked in that field of use or the geographical areas in which the contractor has achieved practical application and continues to make the benefits of the subject invention reasonably accessible to the public. The license in any foreign country may be revoked or modified to the extent the contractor, its licensees, or its domestic subsidiaries or affiliates have failed to achieve practical application in that country. (See the procedures at 27.304-1(f).)
