
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart 1.2 - Administration
###### 1.201-1 The two councils.

(a) Subject to the authorities discussed in 1.103, revisions to the FAR will be prepared and issued through the coordinated action of two councils, the Defense Acquisition Regulations Council (DAR Council) and the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council (CAA Council). Members of these councils shall-

(1) Represent their agencies on a full-time basis;

(2) Be selected for their superior qualifications in terms of acquisition experience and demonstrated professional expertise; and

(3) Be funded by their respective agencies.

(b) The chairperson of the CAA Council shall be the representative of the Administrator of General Services. The other members of this council shall be one each representative from the-

(1) Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Education, Energy, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation, Treasury, and Veterans Affairs; and

(2) Environmental Protection Agency, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Social Security Administration, Small Business Administration, and U.S. Agency for International Development.

(c) The Director of the DAR Council shall be the representative of the Secretary of Defense. The operation of the DAR Council will be as prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. Membership shall include representatives of the military departments, the Defense Logistics Agency and the Defense Contract Management Agency.

(d) Responsibility for processing revisions to the FAR is apportioned by the two councils so that each council has cognizance over specified parts or subparts.

(e) Each council shall be responsible for-

(1) Agreeing on all revisions with the other council;

(2) Submitting to the FAR Secretariat (see 1.201-2) the information required under paragraphs 1.501-2(b) and (e) for publication in theof a notice soliciting comments on a proposed revision to the FAR;

(3) Considering all comments received in response to notice of proposed revisions;

(4) Arranging for public meetings;

(5) Preparing any final revision in the appropriate FAR format and language; and

(6) Submitting any final revision to the FAR Secretariat for publication in the.
