
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 27 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 27.4 - Rights in Data and Copyrights
###### 27.404-2 Limited rights data and restricted computer software.
####### Protection of limited rights data specified for delivery.

(c)(1) The clause at 52.227-14 with its Alternate II enables the Government to require delivery of limited rights data rather than allow the contractor to withhold the data. To obtain delivery, the contract may identify and specify data to be delivered, or the contracting officer may require, by written request during contract performance, the delivery of data that has been withheld or identified to be withheld under paragraph (g)(1) of the clause. In addition, the contract may specifically identify data that are not to be delivered under Alternate II or which, if delivered, will be delivered with limited rights. The limited rights obtained by the Government are set forth in the Limited Rights Notice contained in paragraph (g)(3) of Alternate II. Agencies shall not, without permission of the contractor, use limited rights data for purposes of manufacture or disclose the data outside the Government except as set forth in the Notice. Any disclosure by the Government shall be subject to prohibition against further use and disclosure by the recipient. The following are examples of specific purposes that may be adopted by an agency in its supplement and added to the Limited Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(3) of Alternate II of the clause:

(i) Use (except for manufacture) by support service contractors.

(ii) Evaluation by nongovernment evaluators.

(iii) Use (except for manufacture) by other contractors participating in the Government's program of which the specific contract is a part.

(iv) Emergency repair or overhaul work.

(v) Release to a foreign government, or its instrumentalities, if required to serve the interests of the U.S. Government, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by the foreign government.

(2) The provision at 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software, helps the contracting officer to determine whether the clause at 52.227-14 should be used with its Alternate II. This provision requests that an offeror state whether limited rights data are likely to be delivered. Where limited rights data are expected to be delivered, use Alternate II. Where negotiations are based on an unsolicited proposal, the need for Alternate II of the clause at 52.227-14 should be addressed during negotiations or discussions, and if Alternate II was not included initially it may be added by modification, if needed, during contract performance.

(3) If data that would otherwise qualify as limited rights data is delivered as a computer database, the data shall be treated as limited rights data, rather than restricted computer software, for the purposes of paragraph (g) of the clause at 52.227-14.
