
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 27 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 27.4 - Rights in Data and Copyrights
###### 27.404-2 Limited rights data and restricted computer software.
####### provided

(iv) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software,that the modified, adapted, or combined portions of the derivative software incorporating any of the delivered, restricted computer software shall be subject to the same restricted rights;

(v) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by support service contractors or their subcontractors, in accordance with paragraphs (3)(i) through (iv) of this section; and

(vi) Used or copied for use with a replacement computer.

(4) The restricted rights set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this subsection are the minimum rights the Government normally obtains with restricted computer software and will automatically apply when such software is acquired under the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(4) of Alternate III of the clause at 52.227-14. However, the contracting officer may specify different rights in the contract, consistent with the purposes and needs for which the software is to be acquired. For example, the contracting officer should consider any networking needs or any requirements for use of the computer software from remote terminals. Also, in addressing such needs, the scope of the restricted rights may be different for the documentation accompanying the computer software than for the programs and databases. Any additions to, or limitations on, the restricted rights set forth in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(4) of Alternate III of the clause at 52.227-14 shall be expressly stated in the contract or in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of the contract, and the notice modified accordingly.

(5) The provision at 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software, helps the contracting officer determine whether to use the clause at 52.227-14 with its Alternate III. This provision requests that an offeror state whether restricted computer software is likely to be delivered under the contract. In addition, the need for Alternate III should be addressed during negotiations or discussions with an offeror, particularly where negotiations are based on an unsolicited proposal. However, if Alternate III is not used initially, it may be added by modification, if needed, during contract performance.
