
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 27 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 27.4 - Rights in Data and Copyrights
###### 27.409 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses

(a) Generally, a contract should contain only one data rights clause. However, where more than one is needed, the contract should distinguish the portion of contract performance to which each pertains.

(b)(1) Insert the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, in solicitations and contracts if it is contemplated that data will be produced, furnished, or acquired under the contract, unless the contract is-

(i) For the production of special works of the type set forth in 27.405-1, although in these cases insert the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, and make it applicable to data other than special works, as appropriate (see paragraph (e) of this section);

(ii) For the acquisition of existing data, commercial computer software, or other existing data, as described in 27.405-2 through 27.405-4 (see paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section);

(iii) A small business innovation research contract (see paragraph (h) of this section);

(iv) To be performed outside the United States (see paragraph (i)(1) of this section);

(v) For architect-engineer services or construction work (see paragraph (i)(2) of this section);

(vi) For the management, operation, design, or construction of a Government-owned facility to perform research, development, or production work (see paragraph (i)(3) of this section); or

(vii) A contract involving cosponsored research and development in which a clause providing for less than unlimited right has been authorized (see 27.408).

(2) If an agency determines, in accordance with 27.404-2(b), to adopt the alternate definition of "Limited Rights Data" in paragraph (a) of the clause, use the clause with its Alternate I.

(3) If a contracting officer determines, in accordance with 27.404-2(c) that it is necessary to obtain limited rights data, use the clause with its Alternate II. The contracting officer shall complete paragraph (g)(3) to include the purposes, if any, for which limited rights data are to be disclosed outside the Government.

(4) In accordance with 27.404-2(d), if a contracting officer determines it is necessary to obtain restricted computer software, use the clause with its Alternate III. Any greater or lesser rights regarding the use, reproduction, or disclosure of restricted computer software than those set forth in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(4) of the clause shall be specified in the contract and the notice modified accordingly.

(5) Use the clause with its Alternate IV in contracts for basic or applied research (other than those for the management or operation of Government facilities, and contracts and subcontracts in support of programs being conducted at those facilities or where international agreements require otherwise) to be performed solely by universities and colleges. The clause may be used with its Alternate IV in other contracts if in accordance with 27.404-3(a), an agency determines to grant permission for the contractor to assert claim to copyright subsisting in all data first produced without further request being made by the contractor. When Alternate IV is used, the contract may exclude items or categories of data from the permission granted, either by express provisions in the contract or by the addition of a paragraph (d)(4) to the clause (see 27.404-4).

(6) In accordance with 27.404-6, if the Government needs the right to inspect certain data at a contractor's facility, use the clause with its Alternate V.

(c) In accordance with 27.404-2(c)(2) and 27.404-2(d)(5), if the contracting officer desires to have an offeror state in response to a solicitation whether limited rights data or restricted computer software are likely to be used in meeting the data delivery requirements set forth in the solicitation, insert the provision at 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software, in any solicitation containing the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General. The contractor's response may provide an aid in determining whether the clause should be used with Alternate II and/or Alternate III.

(d) Insert the clause at 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, in solicitations and contracts involving experimental, developmental, research, or demonstration work (other than basic or applied research to be performed solely by a university or college where the contract amount will be $500,000 or less) unless all the requirements for data are believed to be known at the time of contracting and specified in the contract (see 27.406-2). This clause may also be used in other contracts when considered appropriate. For example, if the contract is for basic or applied research to be performed by a university or college, and the contracting officer believes the contract effort will in the future exceed $500,000, even though the initial award does not, the contracting officer may include the clause in the initial award.

(e) In accordance with 27.405-1, insert the clause at 52.227-17, Rights in Data-Special Works, in solicitations and contracts primarily for the production or compilation of data (other than limited rights data or restricted computer software) for the Government's internal use, or when there is a specific need to limit distribution and use of the data or to obtain indemnity for liabilities that may arise out of the content, performance, or disclosure of the data. Examples of such contracts are set forth in 27.405-1.

(1) Insert the clause if existing works are to be modified, as by editing, translation, addition of subject matter, etc.

(2) The contract may specify the purposes and conditions (including time limitations) under which the data may be used, released, or reproduced by the contractor for other than contract performance.

(3) Contracts for the production of audiovisual works, sound recordings, etc. may include limitations in connection with talent releases, music licenses, and the like that are consistent with the purposes for which the data is acquired.

(4) The clause may be modified in accordance with paragraphs (c) through (e) of 27.405-1.
