
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 28 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 28.3 - Insurance
###### 28.305 Overseas workers' compensation and war-hazard insurance.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(c) When the Defense Base Act applies (see 42 U.S.C. 1651) to these employees, the benefits of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act are extended through operation of the War Hazards Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 1701) to protect the employees against the risk of war hazards (injury, death, capture, or detention). When, by means of an insurance policy or a self-insurance program, the contractor provides the workers' compensation coverage required by the Defense Base Act, the contractor's employees automatically receive war-hazard risk protection.

(d) When the agency head recommends a waiver to the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary may waive the applicability of the Defense Base Act to any contract, subcontract, work location, or classification of employees.

(e) If the Defense Base Act is waived for some or all of the contractor's employees, the benefits of the War Hazards Compensation Act are automatically waived with respect to those employees for whom the Defense Base Act is waived. For those employees, the contractor shall provide workers' compensation coverage against the risk of work injury or death and assume liability toward the employees and their beneficiaries for war-hazard injury, death, capture, or detention. The contract shall provide either that the costs of this liability or the reasonable costs of insurance against this liability shall be allowed as a cost under the contract.
