
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 28 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### 28.001 Definitions.
###### Bond

means a written instrument executed by a bidder or contractor (the "principal"), and a second party ("the surety" or "sureties") (except as provided in 28.204), to assure fulfillment of the principal's obligations to a third party (the "obligee" or "Government"), identified in the bond. If the principal's obligations are not met, the bond assures payment, to the extent stipulated, of any loss sustained by the obligee. The types of bonds and related documents are as follows:

(1) An advance payment bond secures fulfillment of the contractor's obligations under an advance payment provision.

(2) An annual bid bond is a single bond furnished by a bidder, in lieu of separate bid bonds, which secures all bids (on other than construction contracts) requiring bonds submitted during a specific Government fiscal year.

(3) An annual performance bond is a single bond furnished by a contractor, in lieu of separate performance bonds, to secure fulfillment of the contractor's obligations under contracts (other than construction contracts) requiring bonds entered into during a specific Government fiscal year.

(4) A patent infringement bond secures fulfillment of the contractor's obligations under a patent provision.

(5) A payment bond assures payments as required by law to all persons supplying labor or material in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract.

(6) A performance bond secures performance and fulfillment of the contractor's obligations under the contract.
