
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 30 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart 30.6 - CAS Administration
###### 30.604 Processing changes to disclosed or established cost accounting practices.
####### General dollar magnitude proposal content.

(e)The GDM proposal-

(1) Shall calculate the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section;

(2) May use one or more of the following methods to determine the increase or decrease in cost accumulations:

(i) A representative sample of affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) The change in indirect rates multiplied by the total estimated base computed for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) Any other method that provides a reasonable approximation of the total increase or decrease in cost accumulations for all affected fixed-price and flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(3) May be in any format acceptable to the CFAO but, as a minimum, shall include the following data:

(i) A general dollar magnitude estimate of the total increase or decrease in cost accumulations by Executive agency, including any impact the change may have on contract and subcontract incentives, fees, and profits, for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) For unilateral changes, the increased or decreased costs to the Government for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts; and

(4) When requested by the CFAO, shall identify all affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.
