
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 30 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart 30.6 - CAS Administration
###### 30.604 Processing changes to disclosed or established cost accounting practices.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,

(1) Include all affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts regardless of their status (open or closed) or the fiscal year(s) in which the costs are incurred (whether or not the final indirect rates have been established);

(2) Combine the cost impact for all affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts for all segments if the effect of a change results in costs flowing between those segments;

(3) For unilateral changes-

(i) Determine the increased or decreased cost to the Government for flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(A) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice exceeds the estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is increased cost to the Government.

(B) When the estimated costs to complete using the changed practice is less than the estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is decreased cost to the Government.

(ii) Determine the increased or decreased cost to the Government for fixed-price contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(A) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice is less than the estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is increased cost to the Government.

(B) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice exceeds the estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is decreased cost to the Government.

(iii) Calculate the total increase or decrease in contract and subcontract incentives, fees, and profits associated with the increased or decreased cost to the Government in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.306(c). The associated increase or decrease is based on the difference between the negotiated incentives, fees and profits and the amounts that would have been negotiated had the cost impact been known at the time the contracts and subcontracts were negotiated.

(iv) Calculate the increased cost to the Government in the aggregate.

(4) For required or desirable changes, negotiate an equitable adjustment as provided in the Changes clause of the contract.
