
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 30 - COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart 30.6 - CAS Administration
###### 30.605 Processing noncompliances.
####### General dollar magnitude proposal content.

(d)The GDM proposal-

(1) Shall calculate the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section;

(2) May use one or more of the following methods to determine the increase or decrease in contract and subcontract price or cost accumulations, as applicable:

(i) A representative sample of affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts affected by the noncompliance.

(ii) When the noncompliance involves cost accumulation, the change in indirect rates multiplied by the applicable base for flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) Any other method that provides a reasonable approximation of the total increase or decrease in contract and subcontract prices and cost accumulations;

(3) The contractor may submit a DCI proposal in lieu of a GDM proposal provided the DCI proposal is in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(4) May be in any format acceptable to the CFAO but, as a minimum, shall include the following data:

(i) The total increase or decrease in contract and subcontract prices and cost accumulations, as applicable, by Executive agency, including any impact the noncompliance may have on contract and subcontract incentives, fees, and profits, for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) The increased or decreased costs to the Government for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) The total overpayments and underpayments for fixed-price and flexibly-priced contracts made by the Government during the period of noncompliance; and

(5) When requested by the CFAO, shall identify all affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.
