
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 31 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 31.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
###### 31.205-6 Compensation for personal services.
####### Backpay.

(h)Backpay is a retroactive adjustment of prior years' salaries or wages. Backpay is unallowable except as follows:

(1) Payments to employees resulting from underpaid work actually performed are allowable, if required by a negotiated settlement, order, or court decree.

(2) Payments to union employees for the difference in their past and current wage rates for working without a contract or labor agreement during labor management negotiation are allowable.

(3) Payments to nonunion employees based upon results of union agreement negotiation are allowable only if-

(i) A formal agreement or understanding exists between management and the employees concerning these payments; or

(ii) An established policy or practice exists and is followed by the contractor so consistently as to imply, in effect, an agreement to make such payments.

(i) Compensation based on changes in the prices of corporate securities or corporate security ownership, such as stock options, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock plans, and junior stock conversions.

(1) Any compensation which is calculated, or valued, based on changes in the price of corporate securities is unallowable.

(2) Any compensation represented by dividend payments or which is calculated based on dividend payments is unallowable.

(3) If a contractor pays an employee in lieu of the employee receiving or exercising a right, option, or benefit which would have been unallowable under this paragraph (i), such payments are also unallowable.
