
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 31 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 31.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
###### 31.205-35 Relocation costs.
####### e.g.,

(3) Closing costs incident to the disposition of the actual residence owned by the employee when notified of the transfer (brokerage fees, legal fees, appraisal fees, points, and finance charges), except that these costs, when added to the costs described in paragraph (a)(4) of this subsection, shall not exceed 14 percent of the sales price of the property sold.

(4) Continuing costs of ownership of the vacant former actual residence being sold, such as maintenance of building and grounds (exclusive of fixing up expenses), utilities, taxes, property insurance, and mortgage interest, after the settlement date or lease date of a new permanent residence, except that these costs, when added to the costs described in paragraph (a)(3) of this subsection, shall not exceed 14 percent of the sales price of the property sold.

(5) Other necessary and reasonable expenses normally incident to relocation, such as disconnecting and connecting household appliances; automobile registration; driver's license and use taxes; cutting and fitting rugs, draperies, and curtains; forfeited utility fees and deposits; and purchase of insurance against damage to or loss of personal property while in transit.

(6) Costs incident to acquiring a home in the new work location, except that-

(i) These costs are not allowable for existing employees or newly recruited employees who were not homeowners before the relocation; and

(ii) The total costs shall not exceed 5 percent of the purchase price of the new home.

(7) Mortgage interest differential payments, except that these costs are not allowable for existing or newly recruited employees who, before the relocation, were not homeowners and the total payments are limited to an amount determined as follows:

(i) The difference between the mortgage interest rates of the old and new residences times the current balance of the old mortgage times 3 years.

(ii) When mortgage differential payments are made on a lump-sum basis and the employee leaves or is transferred again in less than 3 years, the amount initially recognized shall be proportionately adjusted to reflect payments only for the actual time of the relocation.

(8) Rental differential payments covering situations where relocated employees retain ownership of a vacated home in the old location and rent at the new location. The rented quarters at the new location must be comparable to those vacated, and the allowable differential payments may not exceed the actual rental costs for the new home, less the fair market rent for the vacated home times 3 years.

(9) Costs of canceling an unexpired lease.

(10) Payments for increased employee income or Federal Insurance Contributions Act (26 U.S.C. chapter 21) taxes incident to allowable reimbursed relocation costs.

(11) Payments for spouse employment assistance.

(b) The costs described in paragraph (a) of this subsection must also meet the following criteria to be considered allowable:

(1) The move must be for the benefit of the employer.

(2) Reimbursement must be in accordance with an established policy or practice that is consistently followed by the employer and is designed to motivate employees to relocate promptly and economically.

(3) The costs must not be otherwise unallowable under subpart 31.2.

(4) Amounts to be reimbursed shall not exceed the employee's actual expenses, except as provided for in paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this subsection.

(5) For miscellaneous costs of the type discussed in paragraph (a)(5) of this subsection, a lump-sum amount, not to exceed $5,000, may be allowed in lieu of actual costs.

(6)(i) Reimbursement on a lump-sum basis may be allowed for any of the following relocation costs when adequately supported by data on the individual elements (e.g., transportation, lodging, and meals) comprising the build-up of the lump-sum amount to be paid based on the circumstances of the particular employee's relocation:

(A) Costs of finding a new home, as discussed in paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection.

(B) Costs of travel to the new location, as discussed in paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection (but not costs for the transportation of household goods).

(C) Costs of temporary lodging, as discussed in paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection.

(ii) When reimbursement on a lump-sum basis is used, any adjustments to reflect actual costs are unallowable.

(c) The following types of costs are unallowable:

(1) Loss on the sale of a home.

(2) Costs incident to acquiring a home in the new location as follows:

(i) Real estate brokers' fees and commissions.

(ii) Costs of litigation.

(iii) Real and personal property insurance against damage or loss of property.

(iv) Mortgage life insurance.

(v) Owner's title policy insurance when such insurance was not previously carried by the employee on the old residence. (However, the cost of a mortgage title policy is allowable.)

(vi) Property taxes and operating or maintenance costs.

(3) Continuing mortgage principal payments on a residence being sold.

(4) Costs incident to furnishing equity or nonequity loans to employees or making arrangements with lenders for employees to obtain lower-than-market rate mortgage loans.

(d) If relocation costs for an employee have been allowed either as an allocable indirect or direct cost, and the employee resigns within 12 months for reasons within the employee's control, the contractor shall refund or credit the relocation costs to the Government.

(e) Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) above, the costs of family movements and of personnel movements of a special or mass nature are allowable. The cost, however, should be assigned on the basis of work (contracts) or time period benefited.

(f) Relocation costs (both outgoing and return) of employees who are hired for performance on specific contracts or long-term field projects are allowable if-

(1) The term of employment is 12 months or more;

(2) The employment agreement specifically limits the duration of employment to the time spent on the contract or field project for which the employee is hired;

(3) The employment agreement provides for return relocation to the employee's permanent and principal home immediately prior to the outgoing relocation, or other location of equal or lesser cost; and

(4) The relocation costs are determined under the rules of paragraphs (a) through (d) above. However, the costs to return employees, who are released from employment upon completion of field assignments pursuant to their employment agreements, are not subject to the refund or credit requirement of paragraph (d).
