
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 31 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 31.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
###### 31.205-41 Taxes.

(a) The following types of costs are allowable:

(1) Federal, State, and local taxes (see part 29), except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) below that are required to be and are paid or accrued in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Fines and penalties are not considered taxes.

(2) Taxes otherwise allowable under subparagraph (a)(1) above, but upon which a claim of illegality or erroneous assessment exists; provided the contractor, before paying such taxes-

(i) Promptly requests instructions from the contracting officer concerning such taxes; and

(ii) Takes all action directed by the contracting officer arising out of subparagraph (2)(i) above or an independent decision of the Government as to the existence of a claim of illegality or erroneous assessment, to (A) determine the legality of the assessment or (B) secure a refund of such taxes.

(3) Pursuant to subparagraph (a)(2) above, the reasonable costs of any action taken by the contractor at the direction or with the concurrence of the contracting officer. Interest or penalties incurred by the contractor for non-payment of any tax at the direction of the contracting officer or by reason of the failure of the contracting officer to ensure timely direction after a prompt request.

(4) The Environmental Tax found at section 59A of the Internal Revenue Code, also called the "Superfund Tax."

(b) The following types of costs are not allowable:

(1) Federal income and excess profits taxes.

(2) Taxes in connection with financing, refinancing, refunding operations, or reorganizations (see 31.205-20 and 31.205-27).
