
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 31 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 31.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
###### 31.205-46 Travel costs.
####### Maximum Travel Per Diem Allowances of Foreign Areas,

(iii) Standarized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), section 925,prescribed by the Department of State, for travel in areas not covered in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, available on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Publishing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Stock No. 744-088-00000-0.

(3) In special or unusual situations, actual costs in excess of the above-referenced maximum per diem rates are allowable provided that such amounts do not exceed the higher amounts authorized for Federal civilian employees as permitted in the regulations referenced in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. For such higher amounts to be allowable, all of the following conditions must be met:

(i) One of the conditions warranting approval of the actual expense method, as set forth in the regulations referred in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, must exist.

(ii) A written justification for use of the higher amounts must be approved by an officer of the contractor's organization or designee to ensure that the authority is properly administered and controlled to prevent abuse.

(iii) If it becomes necessary to exercise the authority to use the higher actual expense method repetitively or on a continuing basis in a particular area, the contractor must obtain advance approval from the contracting officer.

(iv) Documentation to support actual costs incurred shall be in accordance with the contractor's established practices, subject to paragraph (a)(7) of this section, and provided that a receipt is required for each expenditure of $75.00 or more. The approved justification required by paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section must be retained.

(4) Paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section and paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section do not incorporate the regulations cited in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section in their entirety. Only the maximum per diem rates, the definitions of lodging, meals, and incidental expenses, and the regulatory coverage dealing with special or unusual situations are incorporated herein.

(5) An advance agreement (see 31.109) with respect to compliance with paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section may be useful and desirable.

(6) The maximum per diem rates referenced in subparagraph (a)(2) of this subsection generally would not constitute a reasonable daily charge-

(i) When no lodging costs are incurred; and/or

(ii) On partial travel days (e.g., day of departure and return).

Appropriate downward adjustments from the maximum per diem rates would normally be required under these circumstances. While these adjustments need not be calculated in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation or Joint Travel Regulations, they must result in a reasonable charge.

(7) Costs shall be allowable only if the following information is documented:

(i) Date and place (city, town, or other similar designation) of the expenses;

(ii) Purpose of the trip; and

(iii) Name of person on trip and that person's title or relationship to the contractor.

(b) Airfare costs in excess of the lowest priced airfare available to the contractor during normal business hours are unallowable except when such accommodations require circuitous routing, require travel during unreasonable hours, excessively prolong travel, result in increased cost that would offset transportation savings, are not reasonably adequate for the physical or medical needs of the traveler, or are not reasonably available to meet mission requirements. However, in order for airfare costs in excess of the above airfare to be allowable, the applicable condition(s) set forth above must be documented and justified.
