
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 31 - CONTRACT COST PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 31.2 - Contracts With Commercial Organizations
###### 31.205-46 Travel costs.
####### Cost of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft,

(c)(1)as used in this paragraph (c), includes the cost of lease, charter, operation (including personnel), maintenance, depreciation, insurance, and other related costs.

(2) The costs of travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft are limited to the allowable airfare described in paragraph (b) of this section for the flight destination unless travel by such aircraft is specifically required by contract specification, term, or condition, or a higher amount is approved by the contracting officer. A higher amount may be agreed to when one or more of the circumstances for justifying higher than allowable airfare listed in paragraph (b) of this section are applicable, or when an advance agreement under paragraph (c)(3) of this section has been executed. In all cases, travel by contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft must be fully documented and justified. For each contractor-owned, -leased, or -chartered aircraft used for any business purpose which is charged or allocated, directly or indirectly, to a Government contract, the contractor must maintain and make available manifest/logs for all flights on such company aircraft. As a minimum, the manifest/log shall indicate-

(i) Date, time, and points of departure;

(ii) Destination, date, and time of arrival;

(iii) Name of each passenger and relationship to the contractor;

(iv) Authorization for trip; and

(v) Purpose of trip.

(3) Where an advance agreement is proposed (see 31.109), consideration may be given to the following:

(i) Whether scheduled commercial airlines or other suitable, less costly, travel facilities are available at reasonable times, with reasonable frequency, and serve the required destinations conveniently.

(ii) Whether increased flexibility in scheduling results in time savings and more effective use of personnel that would outweigh additional travel costs.

(d) Costs of contractor-owned or leased automobiles, as used in this paragraph, include the costs of lease, operation (including personnel), maintenance, depreciation, insurance, etc. These costs are allowable, if reasonable, to the extent that the automobiles are used for company business. That portion of the cost of company-furnished automobiles that relates to personal use by employees (including transportation to and from work) is compensation for personal services and is unallowable as stated in 31.205-6(m)(2).
