
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.5 - Progress Payments Based on Costs
###### 32.503-6 Suspension or reduction of payments.
####### Loss contracts.

(g)(1) If the sum of the total costs incurred under a contract plus the estimated costs to complete the performance are likely to exceed the contract price, the contracting officer shall compute a loss ratio factor and adjust future progress payments to exclude the element of loss. The loss ratio factor is computed as follows:

(i) Revise the current contract price used in progress payment computations (the current ceiling price under fixed-price incentive contracts) to include the not-to-exceed amount for any pending change orders and unpriced orders.

(ii) Divide the revised contract price by the sum of the total costs incurred to date plus the estimated additional costs of completing the contract performance.

(2) If the contracting officer believes a loss is probable, future progress payment requests shall be modified as follows:

(i) The contract price shall be the revised amount computed under subparagraph (1)(i) above.

(ii) The total costs eligible for progress payments shall be the product of (A) the sum of paid costs eligible for progress payments times (B) the loss ratio factor computed under subparagraph (1)(ii) above.

(iii) The costs applicable to items delivered, invoiced, and accepted shall not include costs in excess of the contract price of the items.

(3) The contracting officer may use audit assistance, technical services, management reports, and other sources of pertinent data to evaluate progress payment requests. If the contracting officer concludes that the contractor's figures in the contractor's progress payment request are not correct, the contracting officer shall-

(i) In the manner prescribed in paragraph (4) below, prepare a supplementary analysis to be attached to the contractor's request;

(ii) Advise the contractor in writing of the differences; and

(iii) Adjust all further progress payments in accordance with paragraph (1) above, using the contracting officer's figures, until the difference is resolved.

(4) The following is an example of the supplementary analysis required in paragraph (g)(3) of this subsection:
