
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.6 - Contract Debts
###### 32.604 Demand for payment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall take the following actions:

(1) Issue the demand for payment as soon as the contracting officer has determined that an actual debt is due the Government and the amount.

(2) Issue the demand for payment even if-

(i) The debt is or will be the subject of a bilateral modification;

(ii) The contractor is otherwise obligated to pay the money under the existing contract terms; or

(iii) The contractor has agreed to repay the debt.

(3) Issue the demand for payment as a part of the final decision, if a final decision is required by 32.605(a).

(b) The demand for payment shall include the following:

(1) A description of the debt, including the debt amount.

(2) A distribution of the principal amount of the debt by line(s) of accounting subject to the following:

(i) If the debt affects multiple lines of accounting, the contracting officer shall, to the maximum extent practicable, identify all affected lines of accounting. If it is not practicable to identify all affected lines of accounting, the contracting officer may select representative lines of accounting in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) In selecting representative lines of accounting, the contracting officer shall-

(A) Consider the affected departments or agencies, years of appropriations, and the predominant types of appropriations; and

(B) Not distribute to any line of accounting an amount of the principal in excess of the total obligation for the line of accounting; and

(iii) Include the lines of accounting even if the associated funds are expired or cancelled. While cancelled funds will be deposited in a miscellaneous receipt account of the Treasury if collected, the funds are tracked under the closed year appropriation(s) to comply with the Anti-Deficiency Act.

(iv) If the debt affects multiple contracts and the lines of accounting are not readily available, the contracting officer shall-

(A) Issue the demand for payment without the distribution of the principal amount to the affected lines of accounting;

(B) Include a statement in the demand for payment advising when the distribution will be provided; and

(C) Provide the distribution by the date identified in the demand for payment.

(3) The basis for and amount of any accrued interest or penalty.
