
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.9 - Prompt Payment
###### 32.904 Determining payment due dates.
####### 2

() For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due the contractor, Government acceptance is deemed to occur constructively on the 7th day after the contractor completes the work or services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract (see also paragraph (c)(2) of this section). If actual acceptance occurs within the constructive acceptance period, the Government must base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance.

(ii) The due date for progress payments is the 30th day after Government approval of contractor estimates of work or services accomplished. For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due the contractor-

(A) Government approval is deemed to occur constructively on the 7th day after the designated billing office receives the contractor estimates (see also paragraph (c)(2) of this section).

(B) If actual approval occurs within the constructive approval period, the Government must base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual date of approval.

(iii) If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice or payment request with the actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the payment due date is the 30th day after the date of the contractor's invoice or payment request, provided the designated billing office receives a proper invoice or payment request and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance with contract requirements.

(2) The constructive acceptance and constructive approval requirements described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are conditioned upon receipt of a proper payment request and no disagreement over quantity, quality, contractor compliance with contract requirements, or the requested progress payment amount. These requirements do not compel Government officials to accept work or services, approve contractor estimates, perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling their responsibilities. The contracting officer may specify a longer period for constructive acceptance or constructive approval, if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to inspect and test the supplies furnished or to evaluate the services performed. The contracting officer must document in the contract file the justification for extending the constructive acceptance or approval period beyond 7 days.
