
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.9 - Prompt Payment
###### 32.904 Determining payment due dates.
####### Construction contracts.

(d)(1) The due date for making payments on construction contracts is as follows:

(i) The due date for making progress payments based on contracting officer approval of the estimated amount and value of work or services performed, including payments for reaching milestones in any project, is 14 days after the designated billing office receives a proper payment request.

(A) If the designated billing office fails to annotate the payment request with the actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the payment due date is the 14th day after the date of the contractor's payment request, provided the designated billing office receives a proper payment request and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance with contract requirements.

(B) The contracting officer may specify a longer period in the solicitation and resulting contract if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to adequately inspect the work and to determine the adequacy of the contractor's performance under the contract. The contracting officer must document in the contract file the justification for extending the due date beyond 14 days.

(C) The contracting officer must not approve progress payment requests unless the certification and substantiation of amounts requested are provided as required by the clause at 52.232-5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts.

(ii) The due date for payment of any amounts retained by the contracting officer in accordance with the clause at 52.232-5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, will be as specified in the contract or, if not specified, 30 days after approval by the contracting officer for release to the contractor. The contracting officer must base the release of retained amounts on the contracting officer's determination that satisfactory progress has been made.
