
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.9 - Prompt Payment
###### 32.904 Determining payment due dates.
####### 2,e.g.,

() The 30th day after Government acceptance of the work or services completed by the contractor. For a final invoice, when the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions (release of contractor claims), acceptance is deemed to occur on the effective date of the contract settlement.

(B) If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the actual date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date is the 30th day after the date of the contractor's invoice, provided the designated billing office receives a proper invoice and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or contractor compliance with contract requirements.

(2) For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty that might be due the contractor for payments described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section-

(i) Government acceptance or approval is deemed to occur constructively on the 7th day after the contractor completes the work or services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract, unless there is a disagreement over quantity, quality, contractor compliance with a contract requirement, or the requested amount;

(ii) If actual acceptance occurs within the constructive acceptance period, the Government must base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance;

(iii) The constructive acceptance requirement does not compel Government officials to accept work or services, approve contractor estimates, perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling their responsibilities; and

(iv) The contracting officer may specify a longer period for constructive acceptance or constructive approval in the solicitation and resulting contract, if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to adequately inspect the work and to determine the adequacy of the contractor's performance under the contract. The contracting officer must document in the contract file the justification for extending the constructive acceptance or approval beyond 7 days.

(3) Construction contracts contain special provisions concerning contractor payments to subcontractors, along with special contractor certification requirements. The Office of Management and Budget has determined that these certifications must not be construed as final acceptance of the subcontractor's performance. The certification in 52.232-5(c) implements this determination; however, certificates are still acceptable if the contractor deletes paragraph (c)(4) of 52.232-5 from the certificate.

(4)(i) Paragraph (d) of the clause at 52.232-5, Payments under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, and paragraph (e)(6) of the clause at 52.232-27, Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts, provide for the contractor to pay interest on unearned amounts in certain circumstances. The Government must recover this interest from subsequent payments to the contractor. Therefore, contracting officers normally must make no demand for payment. Contracting officers must-

(A) Compute the amount in accordance with the clause;

(B) Provide the contractor with a final decision; and

(C) Notify the payment office of the amount to be withheld.

(ii) The payment office is responsible for making the deduction of interest. Amounts collected in accordance with these provisions revert to the United States Treasury.
