
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 32 - CONTRACT FINANCING
##### Subpart 32.9 - Prompt Payment
###### 32.905 Payment documentation and process.
####### Authorization to pay.,e.g.,

(c)All invoice payments, with the exception of interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services, must be supported by a receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment (Government certified voucher). The agency receiving official should forward the receiving report or other Government documentation to the designated payment office by the 5th working day after Government acceptance or approval, unless other arrangements have been made. This period of time does not extend the due dates prescribed in this section. Acceptance should be completed as expeditiously as possible. The receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment must, as a minimum, include the following:

(1) Contract number or other authorization for supplies delivered or services performed.

(2) Description of supplies delivered or services performed.

(3) Quantities of supplies received and accepted or services performed, if applicable.

(4) Date supplies delivered or services performed.

(5) Date that the designated Government official-

(i) Accepted the supplies or services; or

(ii) Approved the progress payment request, if the request is being made under the clause at 52.232-5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, or the clause at 52.232-10, Payments Under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts.

(6) Signature, printed name, title, mailing address, and telephone number of the designated Government official responsible for acceptance or approval functions.
