
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 33 - PROTESTS, DISPUTES, AND APPEALS
##### Subpart 33.1 - Protests
###### 33.104 Protests to GAO.
####### General procedures.

(a)(1) A protester is required to furnish a copy of its complete protest to the official and location designated in the solicitation or, in the absence of such a designation, to the contracting officer, so it is received no later than 1 day after the protest is filed with the GAO. The GAO may dismiss the protest if the protester fails to furnish a complete copy of the protest within 1 day.

(2) Immediately after receipt of the GAO's written notice that a protest has been filed, the agency shall give notice of the protest to the contractor if the award has been made, or, if no award has been made, to all parties who appear to have a reasonable prospect of receiving award if the protest is denied. The agency shall furnish copies of the protest submissions to such parties with instructions to (i) communicate directly with the GAO, and (ii) provide copies of any such communication to the agency and to other participating parties when they become known. However, if the protester has identified sensitive information and requests a protective order, then the contracting officer shall obtain a redacted version from the protester to furnish to other interested parties, if one has not already been provided.

(3)(i) Upon notice that a protest has been filed with the GAO, the contracting officer shall immediately begin compiling the information necessary for a report to the GAO. The agency shall submit a complete report to the GAO within 30 days after the GAO notifies the agency by telephone that a protest has been filed, or within 20 days after receipt from the GAO of a determination to use the express option, unless the GAO-

(A) Advises the agency that the protest has been dismissed; or

(B) Authorizes a longer period in response to an agency's request for an extension. Any new date is documented in the agency's file.

(ii) When a protest is filed with the GAO, and an actual or prospective offeror so requests, the procuring agency shall, in accordance with any applicable protective orders, provide actual or prospective offerors reasonable access to the protest file. However, if the GAO dismisses the protest before the documents are submitted to the GAO, then no protest file need be made available. Information exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552 may be redacted from the protest file. The protest file shall be made available to non-intervening actual or prospective offerors within a reasonable time after submittal of an agency report to the GAO. The protest file shall include an index and as appropriate-

(A) The protest;

(B) The offer submitted by the protester;

(C) The offer being considered for award or being protested;

(D) All relevant evaluation documents;

(E) The solicitation, including the specifications or portions relevant to the protest;

(F) The abstract of offers or relevant portions; and

(G) Any other documents that the agency determines are relevant to the protest, including documents specifically requested by the protester.

(iii) At least 5 days prior to the filing of the report, in cases in which the protester has filed a request for specific documents, the agency shall provide to all parties and the GAO a list of those documents, or portions of documents, that the agency has released to the protester or intends to produce in its report, and those documents that the agency intends to withhold from the protester and the reasons for the proposed withholding. Any objection to the scope of the agency's proposed disclosure or nondisclosure of the documents must be filed with the GAO and the other parties within 2 days after receipt of this list.

(iv) The agency report to the GAO shall include-

(A) A copy of the documents described in 33.104(a)(3)(ii);

(B) The contracting officer's signed statement of relevant facts, including a best estimate of the contract value, and a memorandum of law. The contracting officer's statement shall set forth findings, actions, and recommendations, and any additional evidence or information not provided in the protest file that may be necessary to determine the merits of the protest; and

(C) A list of parties being provided the documents.

(4)(i) At the same time the agency submits its report to the GAO, the agency shall furnish copies of its report to the protester and any intervenors. A party shall receive all relevant documents, except-

(A) Those that the agency has decided to withhold from that party for any reason, including those covered by a protective order issued by the GAO. Documents covered by a protective order shall be released only in accordance with the terms of the order. Examples of documents the agency may decide to exclude from a copy of the report include documents previously furnished to or prepared by a party; classified information; and information that would give the party a competitive advantage; and

(B) Protester's documents which the agency determines, pursuant to law or regulation, to withhold from any interested party.

(ii)(A) If the protester requests additional documents within 2 days after the protester knew the existence or relevance of additional documents, or should have known, the agency shall provide the requested documents to the GAO within 2 days of receipt of the request.

(B) The additional documents shall also be provided to the protester and other interested parties within this 2-day period unless the agency has decided to withhold them for any reason (see subdivision (a)(4)(i) of this section). This includes any documents covered by a protective order issued by the GAO. Documents covered by a protective order shall be provided only in accordance with the terms of the order.

(C) The agency shall notify the GAO of any documents withheld from the protester and other interested parties and shall state the reasons for withholding them.

(5) The GAO may issue protective orders which establish terms, conditions, and restrictions for the provision of any document to an interested party. Protective orders prohibit or restrict the disclosure by the party of procurement sensitive information, trade secrets or other proprietary or confidential research, development or commercial information that is contained in such document. Protective orders do not authorize withholding any documents or information from the United States Congress or an executive agency.
