
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 36 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARCHITECT-ENGINEER CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 36.2 - Special Aspects of Contracting for Construction
###### 36.211 Distribution of advance notices and solicitations.

(a) Advance notices and solicitations should be distributed to reach as many prospective offerors as practicable. Contracting officers may send notices and solicitations to organizations that maintain, without charge to the public, display rooms for the benefit of prospective offerors, subcontractors, and material suppliers. If requested by such organizations, this may be done for all or a stated class of construction projects on an annual or semiannual basis. Contracting officers may determine the geographical extent of distribution of advance notices and solicitations on a case-by-case basis.

(b) As required by 15 U.S.C. 644(w), the contracting officer shall transmit to the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) a notice (see 5.205(h), in solicitation notices posted at the GPE for construction contracts anticipated to be awarded to a small business pursuant to part 19. The notice shall include certain information regarding the agency's definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts. This information includes:

(1) A description of agency policies or procedures, in addition to that outlined in FAR 43.204, that apply to definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts. This description may be provided in a notice by including an address of an agency-specific, publicly accessible website containing this information. If no agency-specific additional policies and procedures exist, the notice shall include a statement to that effect.

(2) Data on the agency's past performance, for the prior 3 fiscal years, regarding the time required to definitize equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts (see 43.204). If fewer than 3 fiscal years of data are available, agencies shall provide data for the number of fiscal years that are available. Data shall be provided in the solicitation notice as shown in the following table, or provide the address of an agency-specific, publicly accessible website containing this information. An adequate change order definitization proposal shall contain sufficient information to enable the contracting officer to conduct meaningful analyses and audits of the information contained in the proposal.
