
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 41 - ACQUISITION OF UTILITY SERVICES
##### Subpart 41.2 - Acquiring Utility Services
###### 41.204 GSA areawide contracts.
####### Procedures for obtaining service.

(c)(1) Any Federal agency having a requirement for utility services within an area covered by an areawide contract shall acquire services under that areawide contract unless-

(i) Service is available from more than one supplier; or

(ii) The head of the contracting activity or designee otherwise determines that use of the areawide contract is not advantageous to the Government. If service is available from more than one supplier, service shall be acquired using competitive acquisition procedures (see 41.202(a)). The determination required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section shall be documented in the contract file with an information copy furnished to GSA at the address in 41.301(a).

(2) Each areawide contract includes an authorization form for ordering service, connection, disconnection, or change in service. Upon execution of an authorization by the contracting officer and utility supplier, the utility supplier is required to furnish services, without further negotiation, at the current, applicable published or unpublished rates, unless other rates, and/or terms and conditions are separately negotiated by the Federal agency with the supplier.

(3) The contracting officer shall execute the Authorization, and attach it to a Standard Form (SF) 26, Award/Contract, along with any modifications such as connection charges, special facilities, or service arrangements. The contracting officer shall also attach any specific fiscal, operational, and administrative requirements of the agency, applicable rate schedules, technical information and detailed maps or drawings of delivery points, details on Government ownership, maintenance, or repair of facilities, and other information deemed necessary to fully define the service conditions in the Authorization/contract.
