
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 41 - ACQUISITION OF UTILITY SERVICES
##### Subpart 41.5 - Solicitation Provision and Contract Clauses
###### 41.501 Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

(a) Because the terms and conditions under which utility suppliers furnish service may vary from area to area, the differences may influence the terms and conditions appropriate to a particular utility's contracting situation. To accommodate requirements that are peculiar to the contracting situation, this section prescribes provisions and clauses on a "substantially the same as" basis (see 52.101) which permits the contracting officer to prepare and utilize variations of the prescribed provision and clauses in accordance with agency procedures.

(b) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations for utility services a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.241-1, Electric Service Territory Compliance Representation, when proposals from alternative electric suppliers are sought.

(c) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts for utility services clauses substantially the same as the clauses at-

(1) 52.241-2, Order of Precedence-Utilities;

(2) 52.241-3, Scope and Duration of Contract;

(3) 52.241-4, Change in Class of Service;

(4) 52.241-5, Contractor's Facilities; and

(5) 52.241-6, Service Provisions.

(d) The contracting officer shall insert clauses substantially the same as the clauses listed below in solicitations and contracts under the prescribed conditions-

(1) 52.241-7, Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Regulated Services, when the utility services are subject to a regulatory body. (Except for GSA areawide contracts, the contracting officer shall insert in the blank space provided in the clause the name of the contracting officer. For GSA areawide contracts, the contracting officer shall insert the following: "GSA and each areawide customer with annual billings that exceed $250,000.")

(2) 52.241-8, Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Unregulated Services, when the utility services are not subject to a regulatory body.
