
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 41 - ACQUISITION OF UTILITY SERVICES
##### Subpart 41.5 - Solicitation Provision and Contract Clauses
###### 41.501 Solicitation provision and contract clauses.
####### Alternate I

(3) 52.241-9, Connection Charge, when a refundable connection charge is required to be paid by the Government to compensate the contractor for furnishing additional facilities necessary to supply service. (Useto the clause if a nonrefundable charge is to be paid. When conditions require the incorporation of a nonrecurring, nonrefundable service charge or a termination liability, see paragraphs (d)(6) and (d)(4) of this section.)

(4) 52.241-10, Termination Liability, when payment is to be made to the contractor upon termination of service in conjunction with or in lieu of a connection charge upon completion of the facilities.

(5) 52.241-11, Multiple Service Locations (as defined in 41.101), when providing for possible alternative service locations, except under areawide contracts, is required.

(6) 52.241-12, Nonrefundable, Nonrecurring Service Charge, when the Government is required to pay a nonrefundable, nonrecurring membership fee, a charge for initiation of service, or a contribution for the cost of facilities construction. The Government may provide for inclusion of such agreed amount or fee as a part of the connection charge, a part of the initial payment for services, or as periodic payments to fulfill the Government's obligation.

(7) 52.241-13, Capital Credits, when the Federal Government is a member of a cooperative and is entitled to capital credits, consistent with the bylaws and governing documents of the cooperative.

(e) Depending on the conditions that are appropriate for each acquisition, the contracting officer shall also insert in solicitations and contracts for utility services the provisions and clauses prescribed elsewhere in the FAR.
