
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 42 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates
###### 42.705-1 Contracting officer determination procedure.
####### Applicability and responsibility.

(a)Contracting officer determination shall be used for the following, with the indicated cognizant contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) responsible for establishing the final indirect cost rates:

(1) Business units of a multidivisional corporation under the cognizance of a corporate administrative contracting officer (see subpart 42.6), with that officer responsible for the determination, assisted, as required, by the administrative contracting officers assigned to the individual business units. Negotiations may be conducted on a coordinated or centralized basis, depending upon the degree of centralization within the contractor's organization.

(2) Business units not under the cognizance of a corporate administrative contracting officer, but having a resident administrative contracting officer (see 42.602), with that officer responsible for the determination. For this purpose, a nonresident administrative contracting officer is considered as resident if at least 75 percent of the administrative contracting officer's time is devoted to a single contractor.

(3) For business units not included in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this subsection, the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) will determine whether the rates will be contracting officer or auditor determined.

(4) Educational institutions (see 42.705-3).

(5) State and local governments (see 42.705-4).

(6) Nonprofit organizations other than educational and state and local governments (see 42.705-5).
