
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 42 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates
###### 42.705-1 Contracting officer determination procedure.
####### e.g.,

(iv) The proposal must be supported with adequate supporting data, some of which may be required subsequent to finding that the proposal is adequate for audit in support of negotiating final indirect cost rates (during the course of the performance of the advisory audit). See the clause at 52.216-7(d)(2) for the description of an adequate final indirect cost rate proposal and supporting data.

(2) Once a proposal has been determined to be adequate for audit in support of negotiating final indirect cost rates, the auditor will audit the proposal and prepare an advisory audit report to the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official), including a listing of any relevant advance agreements or restrictive terms of specific contracts.

(3) The contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) shall head the Government negotiating team, which includes the cognizant auditor and technical or functional personnel as required. Contracting offices having significant dollar interest shall be invited to participate in the negotiation and in the preliminary discussion of critical issues. Individuals or offices that have provided a significant input to the Government position should be invited to attend.

(4) The Government negotiating team shall develop a negotiation position. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3745 and 41 U.S.C. 4305, the contracting, officer shall-

(i) Not resolve any questioned costs until obtaining-

(A) Adequate documentation on the costs; and

(B) The contract auditor's opinion on the allowability of the costs.

(ii) Whenever possible, invite the contract auditor to serve as an advisor at any negotiation or meeting with the contractor on the determination of the contractor's final indirect cost rates.

(5) The cognizant contracting officer shall-

(i) Conduct negotiations;

(ii) Prepare a written indirect cost rate agreement conforming to the requirements of the contracts;

(iii) Prepare, sign, and place in the contractor general file (see 4.801(c)(3)) a negotiation memorandum covering

(A) the disposition of significant matters in the advisory audit report,

(B) reconciliation of all costs questioned, with identification of items and amounts allowed or disallowed in the final settlement as well as the disposition of period costing or allocability issues,

(C) reasons why any recommendations of the auditor or other Government advisors were not followed, and

(D) identification of certified cost or pricing data submitted during the negotiations and relied upon in reaching a settlement; and

(iv) Distribute resulting documents in accordance with 42.706.

(v) Notify the contractor of the individual costs which were considered unallowable and the respective amounts of the disallowance.
