
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 42 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates
###### 42.705-3 Educational institutions.
####### General.

(a)(1) Postdetermined final indirect cost rates shall be used in the settlement of indirect costs for all cost-reimbursement contracts with educational institutions, unless predetermined final indirect cost rates are authorized and used (see paragraph (b) below).

(2) The OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, appendix III assigns each educational institution (defined as an institution of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U.S.C. 1001) to a single Government agency for the negotiation of indirect cost rates and provides that those rates shall be accepted by all Federal agencies. Cognizant Government agencies and educational institutions are listed in the Directory of Federal Contract Audit Offices (see 42.103).

(3) The cognizant agency for indirect costs shall establish the billing rates and final indirect cost rates at the educational institution (defined as an institution of higher education in 2 CFR 200, subpart A, and 20 U.S.C. 1001) consistent with the requirements of this subpart, Subpart 31.3, and the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and appendix III. The agency shall follow the procedures outlined in 42.705-1(b).

(4) If the cognizant agency is unable to reach agreement with an institution, the appeals system of the cognizant agency shall be followed for resolution of the dispute.
