
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 42 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates
###### 42.705-3 Educational institutions.
####### i.e.

(ii) If the proposal is found to be generally acceptable, the agency shall negotiate the predetermined rates with the institution. The rates should be based on an audit of the institution's costs for the year immediately preceding the year in which the rates are being negotiated. If this is not possible, an earlier audit may be used, but appropriate steps should be taken to identify and evaluate significant variations in costs incurred or in bases used that may have a bearing on the reasonableness of the proposed rates. However, in the case of smaller contracts (, contracts that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold), an audit made at an earlier date is acceptable if (A) there have been no significant changes in the contractor's organization and (B) it is reasonably apparent that another audit would have little effect on the rates finally agreed upon and the potential for overpayment of indirect cost is relatively insignificant.

(5) If predetermined rates are used-

(i) The contracting officer shall include the negotiated rates and bases in the contract Schedule; and

(ii) See 16.307(g), which prescribes the clause at 52.216-15, Predetermined Indirect Cost Rates.

(6) Predetermined indirect cost rates shall be applicable for a period of not more than four years. The agency shall obtain the contractor's proposal for new predetermined rates sufficiently in advance so that the new rates, based on current data, may be promptly negotiated near the beginning of the new fiscal year or other period agreed to by the parties (see paragraphs (b) and (d) of the clause at 52.216-15, Predetermined Indirect Cost Rates).

(7) Contracting officers shall use billing rates established by the agency to reimburse the contractor for work performed during a period not covered by predetermined rates.

(8) The OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and appendix III, provides additional guidance on how long predetermined rates may be used.
