
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 45 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 45.1 - General
###### 45.107 Contract clauses.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.245-1, Government Property, in-

(i) All cost-reimbursement and time-and-material type solicitations and contracts, and labor-hour solicitations when property is expected to be furnished for the labor-hour contracts.

(ii) Fixed-price solicitations and contracts when the Government will provide Government property.

(iii) Contracts or modifications awarded under FAR Part 12 procedures where Government property that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101, is furnished or where the contractor is directed to acquire property for use under the contract that is titled in the Government.

(2) The contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I in contracts other than those identified in FAR 45.104(a), Responsibility and Liability for Government Property.

(3) The contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate II when a contract for the conduct of basic or applied research at nonprofit institutions of higher education or at nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research (see 35.014) is contemplated.

(b) The contracting officer shall also insert the clause at 52.245-2, Government Property (Installation Operation Services), in fixed-price service contracts to be performed on a Government installation when Government-furnished property will be provided for initial provisioning only and the Government is not responsible for repair or replacement.

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.245-9, Use and Charges, in solicitations and contracts when the clause at 52.245-1 is included.

(d) Purchase orders for property repair need not include a Government property clause when the unit acquisition cost of Government property to be repaired does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, unless other Government property (not for repair) is provided.
