
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 45 - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY
##### Subpart 45.6 - Reporting, Reutilization, and Disposal
###### 45.602-3 Screening.
####### Special test equipment with commercial components.

(2)(i) Agencies shall complete the screening required by paragraph (a) of this section. If an agency has no further need for the property and the contractor has not expressed an interest in using or acquiring the property by annotating the inventory disposal schedule, the plant clearance officer shall forward the inventory disposal schedule to the GSA regional office that serves the region in which the property is located.

(ii) If the contractor has expressed an interest in using the property on another Government contract, the plant clearance officer shall contact the contracting officer for that contract. If the contracting officer concurs with the proposed use, the contracting officer for the contract under which the property is accountable shall transfer the property's accountability to that contract. If the contracting officer does not concur with the proposed use, the plant clearance officer shall deny the contractor's request and shall continue the screening process.

(iii) If the property is contractor-acquired or -produced, and the contractor or subcontractor has expressed an interest in acquiring the property, and no other party expresses an interest during agency or GSA screening, the property may be sold to the contractor or subcontractor at acquisition cost.
