
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.2 - Contracts for Transportation or for Transportation-Related Services
###### 47.207-7 Liability and insurance.

(a) The contracting officer shall specify-

(1) The contractor's liability for injury to persons or damage to property other than the freight being transported;

(2) The contractor's liability for loss of and/or damage to the freight being transported; and

(3) The amount of insurance the contractor is required to maintain.

(b) When the contractor's liability for loss of and/or damage to the freight being transported is not specified, the usual measure of liability as prescribed in section 11706 of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 11706) applies.

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-21, Contractor Liability for Personal Injury and/or Property Damage.

(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-22, Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Freight other than Household Goods, in solicitations and contracts for the transportation of freight other than household goods.

(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-23, Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Household Goods, in solicitations and contracts for the transportation of household goods, including the rate per pound appropriate to the situation.

(f) When freight is not shipped under rates subject to released or declared value, see 28.313(a) and the clause at 52.228-9, Cargo Insurance.

(g) When the contracting officer determines that vehicular liability and/or general public liability insurance required by law are not sufficient for a contract, see 28.313(b) and the clause at 52.228-10, Vehicular and General Public Liability Insurance.
