
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-3 F.o.b. origin solicitations.

When preparing f.o.b. origin solicitations, the contracting officer shall refer to 47.303, where f.o.b. origin clauses relating to standard delivery terms are prescribed. Supply solicitations that will or may result in f.o.b. origin contracts shall also contain requirements, information, provisions, and clauses concerning the following items:

(a) Delivery in carload or truckload lots f.o.b. carrier's equipment, wharf, or freight station.

(b) The requirement that the offeror furnish the following information with the offer:

(1) Location of the offeror's actual shipping point(s) (street address, city, State, and ZIP code) from which supplies will be delivered to the Government.

(2) Whether the offeror's shipping point has a private railroad siding, and the name of the rail carrier serving it.

(3) When the offeror's shipping point does not have a private siding, the names and addresses of the nearest public rail siding and of the carrier serving it. (This will enable transportation officers, when issuing routing instructions, to select the mode of transportation that will provide the required service at the lowest possible overall cost.)

(4)(i) The quantity of supplies to be shipped from each shipping point.

(ii) The contracting officer shall insert in f.o.b. origin solicitations the provision at 52.247-46, Shipping Point(s) Used in Evaluation of F.o.b. Origin Offers, when price evaluation for shipments from various shipping points is contemplated.
