
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-6 Shipments to ports and air terminals.
####### Alternate III,

(3)when offers are solicited on an f.o.b. destination only basis.

(f)(1) When the supplies are to move in the Defense Transportation System (DTS) (see 47.301-3), the contract shall specify that-

(i) A Transportation Control Movement Document (TCMD) must be dispatched to the appropriate DOD air or water clearance authority in accordance with DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II, procedures for all shipments consigned to DOD air or water terminal transshipment points; and

(ii) An Export Release must be obtained for supplies to be transshipped via a water port of loading to overseas destinations, except for shipments for which an Export Release is not required, generally shipments of less than 10,000 pounds, (see DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II).

(2) When shipments will be consigned to DOD air or water terminal transshipment points, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-52, Clearance and Documentation Requirements-Shipments to DOD Air or Water Terminal Transshipment Points.

(g) When a contract will not generate any shipments that require an Export Release, only the DOD CONUS ports that serve the overseas destination shall be listed in the solicitation, except that the responsible contracting officer may limit the water ports listed when such limitation is considered necessary to meet delivery or other requirements.

(h) The award shall specify the United States ports of loading that afford the lowest overall cost to the overseas destination.

(i) When supplies will be from origins outside CONUS to destinations either within or outside CONUS, the contracting officer shall use the appropriate f.o.b. term and include evaluation-of-offers information.

(j) In furtherance of the Cargo Preference Act of 1954 (46 U.S.C. 1241(b)), to encourage and foster the American Merchant Marine, the port of delivery of supplies originating outside the United States and shipped by ocean vessel shall be based on the availability of United States-flag vessels between the ports involved, unless the acquiring activity has given other specific instructions. (See subpart 47.5-Ocean Transportation by U.S.-Flag Vessels.)

(k) For application of the Fly America Act to the transportation of supplies and personnel when the Government is responsible for the transportation costs, see subpart 47.4-Air Transportation by U.S.-Flag Carriers.

(l) Military and civilian agencies shall obtain assistance from transportation offices in connection with all export shipments (see 47.105).
