
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-9 Commodity description and freight classification.

(a) Generally, the freight rate for supplies is based on the rating applicable to the freight classification description published in the National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC) (for carriers) and the Uniform Freight Classification (UFC) (for rail) filed with Federal and State regulatory bodies. Therefore, the contracting officer shall show in the solicitation a complete description of the commodity to be acquired and of packing requirements to determine proper transportation charges for the evaluation of offers. If supplies cannot be properly classified through reference to freight classification tariffs or if doubt exists, the contracting officer shall obtain the applicable freight classification from the transportation office. In some situations prospective contractors have established an official freight classification description that can be applied.

(b)(1) When the supplies being acquired are new to the supply system, nonstandard, or modifications of previously shipped items, and different freight classifications may apply, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations the provision at 52.247-53, Freight Classification Description.

(2) The contracting officer shall alert the transportation officer to the possibility of negotiations for appropriate freight classification ratings and reasonable transportation rates.

(c) The solicitation shall contain adequate descriptions of explosives and other dangerous supplies according to (1) the regular freight classification and (2) the hazardous material description and hazard class as shown in 49 CFR 172.101.

(d) The contracting officer shall furnish the freight classification information developed in 47.305-9(a), (b), and (c) above to the contract administration office.
