
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-10 Packing, marking, and consignment instructions.

(a) Acquisition documents shall include packing and marking requirements necessary to prevent deterioration of supplies and damages due to the hazards of shipping, handling, and storage, and, when appropriate, marking in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 172.300.

(b) Contracts shall include complete consignment and marking instructions at the time the contract is awarded to ensure that supplies are delivered to proper destinations without delay. If complete consignment information is not initially known, the contracting officer shall issue amended delivery instructions under the Changes clause of the contract (see 43.205) as soon as the information becomes known.

(c) If necessary to meet required delivery schedules, the contracting officer may issue instructions by telephone or electronic means. The contracting officer shall confirm telephonic instructions in writing, and confirm electronic instructions if the contracting officer did not receive confirmation of receipt.

(d) Marking and consignment instructions for military shipments shall conform to the current issue of MIL-STD-129 (Military Standard Marking for Shipment and Storage) and other applicable DOD regulations. Shipments for civilian agencies shall be marked as specified in Federal Standard 123, Marking for Domestic Shipment (Civil Agencies).
