
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-13 Transit arrangements.
####### Transit privileges.

(a)(1) Transit arrangements permit the stopping of a carload or truckload shipment at a specific intermediate point en route to the final destination for storage, processing, or other purposes, as specified in carrier tariffs or rate tenders. A single through rate is charged from origin to final destination plus a transit or other related charge, rather than a more expensive combination of rates to and from the transit point.

(2) The contracting officer shall consider possible benefits available to the Government through the use of existing transit arrangements or through efforts to obtain additional transit privileges from the carriers. Solicitations incorporating transit arrangements shall be restricted to f.o.b. origin offers, as f.o.b. destination offers can only quote fixed overall delivered prices at first destination.

(3)(i) Traffic management personnel shall furnish information and analyses of situations in which transit arrangements may be beneficial. The quantity to be awarded must be of sufficient tonnage to ensure that carload/truckload shipments can be made by the contractor, and there should be reasonable certainty that shipments out of the transit point will be requested in carload/truckload quantities.

(ii) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations the provision at 52.247-56, Transit Arrangements, when benefits may accrue to the Government because transit arrangements may apply.
