
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 47 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts
###### 47.305-13 Transit arrangements.
####### Transit credits.

(b)(1) In evaluations of f.o.b. origin offers for large quantities of supplies that contractors normally have in process or storage at intermediate points, contracting officers shall make use of contractors' earned commercial transit credits, which are recorded with the carriers. A transit credit represents the transportation costs for a recorded tonnage from the initial point to an intermediate point. The remaining transportation charges from the intermediate point to the Government destination, because they are based on through rates, are frequently lower than the transportation charges that would apply for the same tonnage if the intermediate point were the initial origin point.

(2) If transit credits apply, the contract shall state that the contractor shall ship the goods on prepaid commercial bills of lading, subject to reimbursement by the Government. The contracting officer shall ensure that this does not preclude a proper change in delivery terms under the Changes clause. The shipments move for the account and at the risk of the Government, as they become Government property at origin.

(3) The contractor shall show the transportation and transit charges as separate amounts on the invoice for each individual shipment. The amount to be reimbursed by the Government shall not exceed the amount quoted in the offer.

(4) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-57, Transportation Transit Privilege Credits, when supplies are of such a nature, or when it is the custom of the trade, that offerors may have potential transit credits available and the Government may reduce transportation costs through the use of transit credits.
