
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 48 - VALUE ENGINEERING
##### Subpart 48.1 - Policies and Procedures
###### 48.104-2 Sharing acquisition savings.
####### Supply or service contracts.

(a)(1) The sharing base for acquisition savings is the number of affected end items on contracts of the contracting office accepting the VECP. The sharing rates (Government/contractor) for net acquisition savings for supplies and services are based on the type of contract, the value engineering clause or alternate used, and the type of savings, as follows:

(2) Acquisition savings may be realized on the instant contract, concurrent contracts, and future contracts. The contractor is entitled to a percentage share (see paragraph (a)(1) of this section) of any net acquisition savings. Net acquisition savings result when the total of acquisition savings becomes greater than the total of Government costs and any negative instant contract savings. This may occur on the instant contract or it may not occur until reductions have been negotiated on concurrent contracts or until future contract savings are calculated, either through lump-sum payment or as each future contract is awarded.

(i) When the instant contract is not an incentive contract, the contractor's share of net acquisition savings is calculated and paid each time such savings are realized. This may occur once, several times, or, in rare cases, not at all.

(ii) When the instant contract is an incentive contract, the contractor shares in instant contract savings through the contract's incentive structure. In calculating acquisition savings under incentive contracts, the contracting officer shall add any negative instant contract savings to the target cost or to the target price and ceiling price and then offset these negative instant contract savings and any Government costs against concurrent and future contract savings.

(3) The contractor shares in the savings on all affected units scheduled for delivery during the sharing period. The contractor is responsible for maintaining, for 3 years after final payment on the contract under which the VECP was accepted, records adequate to identify the first delivered unit incorporating the applicable VECP.

(4) Contractor shares of savings are paid through the contract under which the VECP was accepted. On incentive contracts, the contractor's share of concurrent and future contract savings and of collateral savings shall be paid as a separate firm-fixed-price line item on the instant contract.

(5) Within 3 months after concurrent contracts have been modified to reflect price reductions attributable to use of the VECP, the contracting officer shall modify the instant contract to provide the contractor's share of savings.

(6) The contractor's share of future contract savings may be paid as subsequent contracts are awarded or in a lump-sum payment at the time the VECP is accepted. The lump-sum method may be used only if the contracting officer has established that this is the best way to proceed and the contractor agrees. The contracting officer ordinarily shall make calculations as future contracts are awarded and, within 3 months after their award, modify the instant contract to provide the contractor's share of savings. For future contract savings calculated under the optional lump-sum method, the sharing base is an estimate of the number of items that the contracting office will purchase for delivery during the sharing period. In deciding whether or not to use the more convenient lump-sum method for an individual VECP, the contracting officer shall consider-

(i) The accuracy with which the number of items to be delivered during the sharing period can be estimated and the probability of actual production of the projected quantity;

(ii) The availability of funds for a lump-sum payment; and

(iii) The administrative expense of amending the instant contract as future contracts are awarded.
