
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 49 - TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 49.2 - Additional Principles for Fixed-Price Contracts Terminated for Convenience
###### 49.206-2 Bases for settlement proposals.
####### Inventory basis.

(a)(1) Use of the inventory basis for settlement proposals is preferred. Under this basis, the contractor may propose only costs allocable to the terminated portion of the contract, and the settlement proposal must itemize separately-

(i) Metals, raw materials, purchased parts, work in process, finished parts, components, dies, jigs, fixtures, and tooling, at purchase or manufacturing cost;

(ii) Charges such as engineering costs, initial costs, and general administrative costs;

(iii) Costs of settlements with subcontractors;

(iv) Settlement expenses; and

(v) Other proper charges.

(2) An allowance for profit (49.202) or adjustment for loss (49.203(b)) must be made to complete the gross settlement proposal. All unliquidated advance and progress payments and all disposal and other credits known when the proposal is submitted must then be deducted.

(3) This inventory basis is also appropriate for use under the following circumstances:

(i) The partial termination of a construction or related professional services contract.

(ii) The partial or complete termination of supply orders under any terminated construction contract.

(iii) The complete termination of a unit-price (as distinguished from a lump-sum) professional services contract.
