
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 49 - TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 49.2 - Additional Principles for Fixed-Price Contracts Terminated for Convenience
###### 49.206-2 Bases for settlement proposals.
####### get ready

(i) If production has not commenced and the accumulated costs represent planning and preproduction orexpenses.

(ii) If, under the contractor's accounting system, unit costs for work in process and finished products cannot readily be established.

(iii) If the contract does not specify unit prices.

(iv) If the termination is complete and involves a letter contract.

(2) When the total-cost basis is used under a complete termination, the contractor must itemize all costs incurred under the contract up to the effective date of termination. The costs of settlements with subcontractors and applicable settlement expenses must also be added. An allowance for profit (49.202) or adjustment for loss (49.203(c)) must be made. The contract price for all end items delivered or to be delivered and accepted must be deducted. All unliquidated advance and progress payments and disposal and other credits known when the proposal is submitted must also be deducted.

(3) When the total-cost basis is used under a partial termination, the settlement proposal shall not be submitted until completion of the continued portion of the contract. The settlement proposal must be prepared as in subparagraph (2) above, except that all costs incurred to the date of completion of the continued portion of the contract must be included.

(4) If a construction contract or a lump-sum professional services contract is completely terminated, the contractor shall-

(i) Use the total cost basis of settlement;

(ii) Omit Line 10 "Deduct-Finished Product Invoiced or to be Invoiced" from Section II of Standard Form-1436) Settlement Proposal (Total Cost Basis); and

(iii) Reduce the gross amount of the settlement by the total of all progress and other payments.
