
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 49 - TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS
##### Subpart 49.6 - Contract Termination Forms and Formats
###### 49.605 Request to settle subcontractor settlement proposals.

Contractors requesting authority to settle subcontractor settlement proposals shall furnish applicable information from the list below and any additional information required by the contracting officer:

(a) Name of contractor and address of principal office.

(b) Name and location of divisions of the applicant's plant for which authorization is requested.

(c) An explanation of the necessity and justification for the authorization requested.

(d) A full description of the applicant's organization for handling terminations, including the names of the officials in charge of processing and settling proposals.

(e) The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted contracts with Government agencies and the percentage applicable to each agency.

(f) The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted subcontracts under Government contracts and the percentage applicable to each agency.

(g) The extent of the applicant's experience in termination matters, including the handling of proposals of subcontractors.

(h) The approximate amount and general nature of terminations of the applicant currently in process.

(i) A statement that no other application has been made for any division of the applicant's plant covered by the application or, if one has been made, a full statement of the facts.

(j) The limit of authorization requested.
