
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 50 - EXTRAORDINARY CONTRACTUAL ACTIONS AND THE SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart 50.1 - Extraordinary Contractual Actions
###### 50.103-4 Facts and evidence.
####### General.

(a)When it is appropriate, the contracting officer or other agency official shall request the contractor to support any request made under 50.103-3(a) with any of the following information:

(1) A brief description of the contracts involved, the dates of execution and amendments, the items being acquired, the price or prices, the delivery schedules, and any special contract provisions relevant to the request.

(2) A history of performance indicating when work under the contracts or commitments began, the progress made to date, an exact statement of the contractor's remaining obligations, and the contractor's expectations regarding completion.

(3) A statement of payments received, due, and yet to be received or to become due, including advance and progress payments; amounts withheld by the Government; and information as to any obligations of the Government yet to be performed under the contracts.

(4) A detailed analysis of the request's monetary elements, including precisely how the actual or estimated dollar amount was determined and the effect of approval or denial on the contractor's profits before Federal income taxes.

(5) A statement of the contractor's understanding of why the request's subject matter cannot now, and could not at the time it arose, be disposed of under the contract terms.

(6) The best supporting evidence available to the contractor, including contemporaneous memorandums, correspondence, and affidavits.

(7) Relevant financial statements, cost analyses, or other such data, preferably certified by a certified public accountant, as necessary to support the request's monetary elements.

(8) A list of persons connected with the contracts who have factual knowledge of the subject matter, including, when possible, their names, offices or titles, addresses, and telephone numbers.

(9) A statement and evidence of steps taken to reduce losses and claims to a minimum.

(10) Any other relevant statements or evidence that may be required.
