
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 50 - EXTRAORDINARY CONTRACTUAL ACTIONS AND THE SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart 50.1 - Extraordinary Contractual Actions
###### 50.103-4 Facts and evidence.
####### Amendments without consideration-essentiality a factor.

(b)When a request involves possible amendment without consideration, and essentiality to the national defense is a factor (50.103-2(a)(1)), the contractor may be asked to furnish, in addition to the facts and evidence listed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, any of the following information:

(1) A statement and evidence of the contractor's original breakdown of estimated costs, including contingency allowances, and profit.

(2) A statement and evidence of the contractor's present estimate of total costs under the contracts involved if it is enabled to complete them, broken down between costs accrued to date and completion costs, and between costs paid and those owed.

(3) A statement and evidence of the contractor's estimate of the final price of the contracts, taking into account all known or contemplated escalation, changes, extras, and the like.

(4) A statement of any claims known or contemplated by the contractor against the Government involving the contracts, other than those stated in response to paragraph (b)(3) of this subsection.

(5) An estimate of the contractor's total profit or loss under the contracts if it is enabled to complete them at the estimated final contract price, broken down between profit or loss to date and completion profit or loss.

(6) An estimate of the contractor's total profit or loss from other Government business and all other sources, from the date of the first contract involved to the estimated completion date of the last contract involved.

(7) A statement of the amount of any tax refunds to date, and an estimate of those anticipated, for the period from the date of the first contract involved to the estimated completion date of the last contract involved.

(8) A detailed statement of efforts the contractor has made to obtain funds from commercial sources to enable contract completion.

(9) A statement of the minimum amount the contractor needs as an amendment without consideration to enable contract completion, and the detailed basis for that amount.

(10) A estimate of the time required to complete each contract if the request is granted.

(11) A statement of the factors causing the loss under the contracts involved.

(12) A statement of the course of events anticipated if the request is denied.

(13) Balance sheets, preferably certified by a certified public accountant, (i) for the contractor's fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the first contract, (ii) for each subsequent fiscal year, (iii) as of the request date, and (iv) projected as of the completion date of all the contracts involved (assuming the contractor is enabled to complete them at the estimated final prices), together with income statements for annual periods subsequent to the date of the first balance sheet. Balance sheets and income statements should be both consolidated and broken down by affiliates. They should show all transactions between the contractor and its affiliates, stockholders, and partners, including loans to the contractor guaranteed by any stockholder or partner.

(14) A list of all salaries, bonuses, and other compensation paid or furnished to the principal officers or partners, and of all dividends and other withdrawals, and of all payments to stockholders in any form since the date of the first contract involved.
