
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 50 - EXTRAORDINARY CONTRACTUAL ACTIONS AND THE SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart 50.1 - Extraordinary Contractual Actions
###### 50.104-3 Special procedures for unusually hazardous or nuclear risks.
####### Action on indemnification requests.

(b)(1) The contracting officer, with assistance from legal counsel and cognizant program office personnel, shall review the indemnification request and ascertain whether it contains all required information. If the contracting officer, after considering the facts and evidence, denies the request, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor promptly of the denial and of the reasons for it. If recommending approval, the contracting officer shall forward the request (as modified, if necessary, by negotiation) through channels to the appropriate official specified in 50.102-1(d). The contracting officer's submission shall include all information submitted by the contractor and-

(i) All pertinent information regarding the proposed contract or program, including the period of performance, locations, and facilities involved;

(ii) A definition of the unusually hazardous or nuclear risks involved in the proposed contract or program, with a statement that the parties have agreed to it;

(iii) A statement by responsible authority that the indemnification action would facilitate the national defense;

(iv) A statement that the contract will involve unusually hazardous or nuclear risks that could impose liability upon the contractor in excess of financial protection reasonably available;

(v) A statement that the contractor is complying with applicable Government safety requirements;

(vi) A statement of whether the indemnification should be extended to subcontractors; and

(vii) A description of any significant changes in the contractor's insurance coverage (see 50.104-3(a)(2)) occurring since submission of the indemnification request.

(2) Approval of a request to include the indemnification clause in a contract shall be by a Memorandum of Decision executed by the appropriate official specified in 50.102-1(d).

(3) When use of the indemnification clause is approved under paragraph (b)(2) of this subsection, the definition of unusually hazardous or nuclear risks (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this subsection) shall be incorporated into the contract, along with the clause.

(4) When approval is-

(i) Authorized in the Memorandum of Decision; and

(ii) Justified by the circumstances, the contracting officer may approve the contractor's written request to provide for indemnification of subcontractors, using the same procedures as those required for contractors.
