
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 50 - EXTRAORDINARY CONTRACTUAL ACTIONS AND THE SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart 50.2 - Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002
###### 50.205-2 Pre-qualification designation notice.
####### Requiring activity responsibilities.

(a)(1) If the requiring activity determines that the technology to be acquired may qualify for SAFETY Act protection, the requiring activity is responsible for requesting a pre-qualification designation notice from DHS. Such a request for a pre-qualification designation notice should be made once the requiring activity has determined that the technology specifications or statement of work are established and are unlikely to undergo substantive modification. DHS will then determine whether the technology identified in the request either affirmatively or presumptively satisfies the technical criteria for SAFETY Act designation. An affirmative determination means the technology described in the pre-qualification designation notice satisfies the technical criteria for SAFETY Act designation as a QATT. A presumptive determination means that the technology is a good candidate for SAFETY Act designation as a QATT. In either case, the notice will authorize offerors to-

(i) Submit a streamlined application for SAFETY Act designation; and

(ii) Receive expedited review of their application for SAFETY Act designation.
