
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter H - Clauses and Forms
#### PART 52 - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES
##### Subpart 52.1 - Instructions for Using Provisions and Clauses
###### 52.101 Using part 52.
####### Matrix.

(e)(1) The matrix in subpart 52.3 contains a column for each principal type and/or purpose of contract (e.g., fixed-price supply, cost reimbursement research and development). The matrix lists the-

(i) Required solicitation provisions;

(ii) Required-when-applicable solicitation provisions;

(iii) Optional solicitation provisions;

(iv) Required contract clauses;

(v) Required-when-applicable contract clauses; and

(vi) Optional contract clauses.

(2) For each provision or clause listed, the matrix provides information on-

(i) Whether incorporation by reference is or is not authorized (see 52.102);

(ii) The section of the Uniform Contract Format (UCF) in which it is to be located, if it is used in an acquisition that is subject to the UCF;

(iii) Its number;

(iv) The citation of the FAR text that prescribes its use; and

(v) Its title.

(3) Since the matrix does not provide sufficient information to determine the applicability of a provision or clause in the "required-when-applicable" and "optional" categories, contracting officers shall refer to the FAR text (cited in the matrix) that prescribes its use.

(4) The FAR matrix may be reproduced at agency levels, and at subordinate levels, for the purpose of supplementing it with agency-developed provisions and clauses. The resulting consolidated matrices may be included in agency acquisition regulations.
