
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter H - Clauses and Forms
#### PART 52 - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES
##### Subpart 52.1 - Instructions for Using Provisions and Clauses
###### 52.103 Identification of provisions and clauses.

(a) Whenever any FAR provision or clause is used without deviation in a solicitation or contract, whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text, it shall be identified by number, title, and date. This identification shall also be used if the FAR provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, except that the contracting officer shall then insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date. Solicited firms and contractors will be advised of the meaning of this insertion through the use of the (1) provision at 52.252-5, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, or (2) clause at 52.252-6, Authorized Deviations in Clauses. The above mentioned provision and clause are prescribed in 52.107 (e) and (f).

(b) Any provision or clause that supplements the FAR whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text shall be clearly identified by number, title, date, and name of the regulation. When a supplemental provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, insert "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.

(c) A provision or clause of the type described in 52.101(b)(2)(i)(C) shall be identified by the title, date, and the name of the agency or suborganization within the agency that developed it.

(d) Except for provisions or clauses covered by 52.103(c), the following hypothetical examples illustrate how a provision or clause that supplements the FAR shall be identified when it is incorporated in solicitations and/or contracts by reference or in full text:

(1) If part 14 (Sealed Bidding) of the X Agency Acquisition Regulation, published in theand codified as Chapter 99 in 48 CFR, prescribes the use of a provision entitled "Bid Envelopes," dated October 1983, and that provision is sequentially the first provision or clause appearing in Section 52.214 of the X Agency Acquisition Regulation, then the identification of that provision shall be "9952.214-70-Bid Envelopes (OCT 1983)."

(2) Assume that Y, a major organizational element of the X Agency, is authorized to issue the Y Acquisition Regulation, which is not published in theand codified in 48 CFR. If part 36 (Construction and Architect-Engineer Contracts) of the Y Acquisition Regulation prescribes the use of a clause entitled "Refrigerated Display Cases," dated March 1983, pertaining to a specialized type of construction work, and that clause is sequentially the second provision or clause appearing in Section 52.236 of the Y Acquisition Regulation, then the identification of that clause shall be "52.236-71-Refrigerated Display Cases (MAR 1983)-Y Acquisition Regulation."
