
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter H - Clauses and Forms
#### PART 52 - SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES
##### Subpart 52.1 - Instructions for Using Provisions and Clauses
###### 52.107 Provisions and clauses prescribed in subpart 52.1.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-1, Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations in order to incorporate provisions by reference.

(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations and contracts in order to incorporate clauses by reference.

(c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-3, Alterations in Solicitation, in solicitations in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the solicitation that apply to the solicitation phase only, except for any provision authorized for use with a deviation.

(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-4, Alterations in Contract, in solicitations and contracts in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the contract, or parts of the solicitations that apply to the contract phase, except for any clause authorized for use with a deviation.

(e) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-5, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, in solicitations that include any FAR or supplemental provision with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental provision is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the provision when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental provision, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision.

(f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-6, Authorized Deviations in Clauses, in solicitations and contracts that include any FAR or supplemental clause with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental clause is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the clause when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental clause, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.
