
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 4.4 - Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry
###### 4.402 General.
####### https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs/

(1) Provided that the data submittal is unclassified, the DD Form 254 shall be completed electronically in the NISP Contract Classification System (NCCS), which is accessible. Nondefense agencies with an existing DD Form 254 information system may use that system.

(2)(i) A contractor, or subcontractor (if applicable), requiring access to classified information under a contract shall be identified with a Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code on the DD Form 254 (see subpart 4.18 for information on obtaining and validating CAGE codes).

(ii) Each location of contractor or subcontractor performance listed on the DD Form 254 is required to reflect a corresponding unique CAGE code for each listed location unless the work is being performed at a Government facility, in which case the agency location code shall be used. Each subcontractor location requiring access to classified information must be listed on the DD Form 254.

(iii) Contractor and subcontractor performance locations listed on the DD Form 254 are not required to be separately registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) solely for the purposes of a DD Form 254 (see subpart 4.11 for information on registering in SAM).

(e) Part 27, Patents, Data, and Copyrights, contains policy and procedures for safeguarding classified information in patent applications and patents.
