
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 203 - IMPROPER BUSINESS PRACTICES AND PERSONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
##### Subpart 203.9 - Whistleblower Protections for Contractor Employees
###### 203.900 Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements 10 U.S.C. 4701 and section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Pub. L. 116-283).

(a)(i) 10 U.S.C. 4701 provides DoD whistleblower protection policies and procedures for contractor employees. Use sections 203.901 through 203.906 of this subpart in lieu of FAR sections 3.901 through 3.906 to implement 10 U.S.C. 4701.

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 4701 does not apply to any element of the intelligence community, as defined in 50 U.S.C. 3003(4). Sections 203.901 through 203.906 do not apply to any disclosure made by an employee of a contractor or subcontractor of an element of the intelligence community if such disclosure-

(A) Relates to an activity or an element of the intelligence community; or

(B) Was discovered during contract or subcontract services provided to an element of the intelligence community.

(c) Section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Pub. L. 116-283) prohibits the award of a DoD contract to contractors that require their employees to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements that would prohibit or otherwise restrict such employees from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a DoD contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative within DoD authorized to receive such information.
