
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 204.21 - Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment
###### 204.2103 Procedures.
####### Representations.

(a)

(1)(i) If the offeror selects "does not" in response to the provision at DFARS 252.204-7016, the contracting officer may rely on the representation, unless the contracting officer has an independent reason to question the representation. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the "does not" representation in FAR 52.204-26, FAR 52.212-3(v), or 252.204-7016, then the contracting officer shall consult with the requiring activity and legal counsel.

(ii) If the offeror selects "does" in paragraph (c) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7016, the offeror must complete the representation at DFARS 252.204-7017.

(2)(i) If the offeror selects "will not" in paragraph (d) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7017, the contracting officer may rely on the representation, unless the contracting officer has an independent reason to question the representation. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the "will not" representation in FAR 52.204-24 or DFARS 252.204-7017, then the contracting officer shall consult with the requiring activity and legal counsel.

(ii) If an offeror selects "will" in paragraph (d) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7017, the offeror must provide the information required by paragraph (e) of the provision. When an offeror completes paragraph (e) of either of the provisions at FAR 52.204-24 or DFARS 252.204-7017, the contracting officer shall-

(A) Forward the offeror's representation and disclosure information to the requiring activity; and

(B) Not award to the offeror unless the requiring activity advises-
