
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 4.10 - Uniform Use of Line Items
###### 4.1005-1 Required data elements.

(a) Except as provided in 4.1005-2, each line item or subline item shall include in the schedule (described at 12.303(b)(4), 14.201-2, or 15.204-2, or in a comparable section of the procurement instrument), at a minimum, the following information as separate, distinct data elements:

(1) Line item or subline item number established in accordance with agency procedures.

(2) Description of what is being purchased.

(3) Product or Service Code (PSC).

(4) Accounting classification citation.

(i) Line items or deliverable subline items. If multiple accounting classifications for a single deliverable apply, include the dollar amount for each accounting classification in the schedule (or a comparable section of the procurement instrument).

(ii) Informational subline items. An accounting classification citation is not required. (See 4.1004).

(5)(i) For fixed-price line items:

(A) Unit of measure.

(B) Quantity.

(C) Unit price.

(D) Total price.

(ii) For cost-reimbursement line items:

(A) Unit of measure.

(B) Quantity.

(C) Estimated cost.

(D) Fee (if any).

(E) Total estimated cost plus any fee.

(b) If a contract contains a combination of fixed-price, time-and-materials, labor-hour, or cost-reimbursable line items, identify the contract type for each line item in the schedule (or a comparable section of the procurement instrument) to facilitate payment.

(c) Each deliverable line item or deliverable subline item shall have its own delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance expressly stated in the appropriate section of the procurement instrument ("as required" constitutes an expressly stated delivery term). When a line item has deliverable subline items, the delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance shall be identified at the subline item level, rather than the line item level.

(d) Terms and conditions in other sections of the contract (such as contract clauses or payment instructions) shall also specify applicability to individual line items if not applicable to the contract as a whole.
