
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 204 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 204.71 - Uniform Contract Line Item Numbering System
###### 204.7106 Contract modifications.
####### Undefinitized items.

(ii)In addition to the rules in paragraph (b)(2)(i), the following additional rules apply to undefinitized items-

(A) If the modification is undefinitized and increases the quantity of an existing definitized item, assign the undefinitized quantity the next available number.

(B) If the modification increases the quantity of an existing undefinitized item, the original contract line item or subline item or exhibit line item may be used if the unit price for the new quantity is expected to be the same as the price for the original quantity. If the unit prices of the two quantities will be different, assign the new quantity the next available number.

(C) If the modification both affects only a partial quantity of the existing contract line item or subline item or exhibit line item and definitizes the price for the affected portion, the definitized portion shall retain the original item number. If there is any undefinitized portion of the item, assign it the next available number. However, if the modification definitizes the price for the whole quantity of the line item, and price impact of the changed work can be apportioned equally over the whole to arrive at a new unit price, the quantity with the changes can be added into the quantity of the existing item.

(D) If the modification affects only a partial quantity of an existing contract line item or subline item or exhibit line item but does not change the delivery schedule or definitize price, the unchanged portion shall retain the original contract line item or subline item or exhibit line item number. Assign the changed portion the next available number.

(3) If the modification will decrease the amount obligated-

(i) There shall be coordination between the administrative and procuring contracting offices before issuance of the modification; and

(ii) The contracting officer shall not issue the modification unless sufficient unliquidated obligation exists or the purpose is to recover monies owed to the Government.
