
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 208 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 208.4 - Federal Supply Schedules
###### 208.405 Ordering procedures for Federal Supply Schedules.

(1) Include an evaluation factor regarding supply chain risk (see subpart 239.73) when acquiring information technology, whether as a service or as a supply, that is a covered system, is a part of a covered system, or is in support of a covered system, as defined in 239.7301.

(2) See 215.101-2-70 for the limitations and prohibitions on the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process, which are applicable to orders placed under Federal Supply Schedules.

(3) See 217.7801 for the prohibition on the use of reverse auctions for personal protective equipment and aviation critical safety items.

(4) See 204.7603 for procedures on the required use of the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS) risk assessments.

(i) The contracting officer shall ensure SPRS assessments of price risk and supplier risk are considered as a part of the award decision.

(ii) When placing an order with a schedule contractor for an end product identified by a material identifier that is available as described at PGI 204.7603, and item risk was not previously considered during award of the schedule contract, the contracting officer shall also consider SPRS assessments of item risk in the award decision.

(iii) Use the provision at 252.204-7024, Notice on the Use of the Supplier Performance Risk System, as prescribed in 204.7604 to the extent permitted by the Federal Supply Schedule.
