
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 208 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 208.70 - Coordinated Acquisition
###### 208.7002 Assignment authority.

(a) Under the DoD Coordinated Acquisition Program, contracting responsibility for certain commodities is assigned to a single department, agency, or the General Services Administration (GSA). Commodity assignments are made-

(1) To the departments and agencies, by the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Logistics);

(2) To GSA, through agreement with GSA, by the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Logistics);

(3) Outside the contiguous United States, by the Unified Commanders; and

(4) For acquisitions to be made in the contiguous United States for commodities not assigned under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, by agreement of agency heads (10 U.S.C. 3065).

(i) Agreement may be on either a one-time or a continuing basis. The submission of a military interdepartmental purchase request (MIPR) by a requiring activity and its acceptance by the contracting activity of another department, even though based on an oral communication, constitutes a one-time agreement.

(ii) Consider repetitive delegated acquisition responsibilities for coordinated acquisition assignment. If not considered suitable for coordinated acquisition assignment, formalize continuing agreements and distribute them to all activities concerned.

(b) Under the Integrated Materiel Management Program, assignments are made by the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Logistics)-

(1) To the departments and agencies; and

(2) To GSA, through agreement with GSA.
