
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 4.12 - Representations and Certifications
###### 4.1202 Solicitation provision and contract clause.

(a) Insert the provision at 52.204-8, Annual Representations and Certifications, in solicitations, except for solicitations for commercial products or commercial services issued under part 12. The contracting officer shall check the applicable provisions at 52.204-8(c)(2). Use the provision with its Alternate I in solicitations issued after October 1, 2025, that will result in a multiple-award contract with more than one North American Industry Classification System code assigned (see 19.102(b)). When the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is included in the solicitation, do not separately include the following representations and certifications:

(1) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination.

(2) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions.

(3) 52.203-18, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities that Require Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements-Representation.

(4) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification.

(5) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business).

(6) 52.204-17, Ownership or Control of Offeror.

(7) 52.204-20, Predecessor of Offeror.

(8) 52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation.

(9) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-Representation.

(10) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters.

(11) 52.209-11, Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law.

(12) 52.214-14, Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding.

(13) 52.215-6, Place of Performance.

(14) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic, Alternates I, and II).

(15) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids.

(16) [Reserved]

(17) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.

(18) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports.

(19) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance.

(20) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements.

(21) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Certification .

(22) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services-Certification.

(23) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification.

(24) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification.

(25) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (Alternate I only).

(26) 52.223-22, Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals-Representation.

(27) 52.225-2, Buy American Certificate.

(28) 52.225-4, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate (Basic, Alternates II and III).

(29) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate.

(30) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-Certification.

(31) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications.

(32) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation.

(33) 52.227-6, Royalty Information (Basic & Alternate I).

(34) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.

(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-19, Incorporation by Reference of Representations and Certifications, in solicitations and contracts.
