
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 212 - ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
##### Subpart 212.5 - Applicability of Certain Laws to the Acquisition of Commercial Products, Commercial Services, and Commercially Available Off-the-Shelf Items
###### 212.503 Applicability of certain laws to Executive agency contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.

(a) The following laws are not applicable to contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 3321(b), Prohibition on Contingent Fees.

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 3741-3750, Allowable Costs Under Defense Contracts.

(iii) 10 U.S.C. 4753(b), Requirement to Identify Suppliers.

(iv) 10 U.S.C. 4656(a), Prohibition on Persons Convicted of Defense Related Felonies.

(v) 10 U.S.C. 3845, Contractor Inventory Accounting System Standards (see 252.242-7004).

(vi) 10 U.S.C. 4651, note prec. (section 855, Pub. L. 117-81), Employment Transparency Regarding Individuals Who Perform Work in the People's Republic of China.

(vii) Domestic Content Restrictions in the National Defense Appropriations Acts for Fiscal Years 1996 and Subsequent Years, unless the restriction specifically applies to commercial products or commercial services. For the restriction that specifically applies to commercial ball or roller bearings as end items, see 225.7009-3 (section 8065 of Pub. L. 107-117).

(viii) Section 8116 of the Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub. L. 111-118) and similar sections in subsequent DoD appropriations acts.

(c) The applicability of the following laws has been modified in regard to contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 4655, Prohibition on Limiting Subcontractor Direct Sales to the United States (see FAR 3.503 and 52.203-6).

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 3703, Truthful Cost or Pricing Data (see FAR 15.403-1(b)(3)).
