
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 212 - ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL SERVICES
##### Subpart 212.5 - Applicability of Certain Laws to the Acquisition of Commercial Products, Commercial Services, and Commercially Available Off-the-Shelf Items
###### 212.504 Applicability of certain laws to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.

(a) The following laws are not applicable to subcontracts at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products, commercial services, or commercial components:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 3321(b), Prohibition on Contingent Fees.

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 3841(d), Examination of Records of a Contractor.

(iii) 10 U.S.C. 3741-3750, Allowable Costs Under Defense Contracts.

(iv) 10 U.S.C. 4871, Reporting Requirement Regarding Dealings with Terrorist Countries.

(v) 10 U.S.C. 4753(b), Requirement to Identify Suppliers.

(vi) 10 U.S.C. 2391 note, Notification of Substantial Impact on Employment.

(vii) 10 U.S.C. 4654, Prohibition Against Doing Business with Certain Offerors or Contractors.

(viii) 10 U.S.C. 4656(a), Prohibition on Persons Convicted of Defense Related Felonies.

(ix) 10 U.S.C. 3845, Contractor Inventory Accounting System Standards.

(x) 10 U.S.C. 4801 note prec., Notification of Proposed Program Termination.

(xi) 10 U.S.C. 4864, Miscellaneous Limitations on the Procurement of Goods Other Than United States Goods.

(xii) 10 U.S.C. 2631, Transportation of Supplies by Sea (except as provided in the clause at 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea).

(xiii) 10 U.S.C. 4651, note prec. (section 855, Pub. L. 117-81), Employment Transparency Regarding Individuals Who Perform Work in the People's Republic of China.

(xiv) Domestic Content Restrictions in the National Defense Appropriations Acts for Fiscal Years 1996 and Subsequent Years, unless the restriction specifically applies to commercial products and commercial services. For the restriction that specifically applies to commercial ball or roller bearings as end items, see 225.7009-3 (section 8065 of Pub. L. 107-117).

(xv) Section 8116 of the Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub. L. 111-118) and similar sections in subsequent DoD appropriations acts.

(b) Certain requirements of the following laws have been eliminated for subcontracts at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products, commercial services, or commercial components:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 4654(d), Subcontractor Reports Under Prohibition Against Doing Business with Certain Offerors (see FAR 52.209-6).

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 4655, Prohibition on Limiting Subcontractor Direct Sales to the United States (see FAR 3.503 and 52.203-6).
