
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 213 - SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart 213.2 - Actions at or Below the Micro-Purchase Threshold
###### 213.270 Use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card.

Use the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as the method of purchase and/or method of payment for purchases valued at or below the micro-purchase threshold. This policy applies to all types of contract actions authorized by the FAR unless-

(a) The Deputy Secretary of Defense has approved an exception for an electronic commerce/electronic data interchange system or operational requirement that results in a more cost-effective payment process;

(b)(1) A general or flag officer or a member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) makes a written determination that-

(i) The source or sources available for the supply or service do not accept the purchase card; and

(ii) The contracting office is seeking a source that accepts the purchase card.

(2) To prevent mission delays, if an activity does not have a resident general or flag officer of SES member, delegation of this authority to the level of the senior local commander or director is permitted; or

(c) The purchase or payment meets one or more of the following criteria:

(1) The place of performance is entirely outside the United States and its outlying areas.

(2) The purchase is a Standard Form 44 purchase for aviation fuel or oil.

(3) The purchase is an overseas transaction by a contracting officer in support of a contingency operation as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13) or a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation as defined in 10 U.S.C. 3015(2).

(4) The purchase is a transaction in support of intelligence or other specialized activities addressed by Part 2.7 of Executive Order 12333.

(5) The purchase is for training exercises in preparation for overseas contingency, humanitarian, or peacekeeping operations.

(6) The payment is made with an accommodation check.

(7) The payment is for a transportation bill.

(8) The purchase is under a Federal Supply Schedule contract that does not permit use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card.

(9) The purchase is for medical services and-

(i) It involves a controlled substance or narcotic;

(ii) It requires the submission of a Health Care Summary Record to document the nature of the care purchased;

(iii) The ultimate price of the medical care is subject to an independent determination that changes the price paid based on application of a mandatory CHAMPUS Maximum Allowable Charge determination that reduces the Government liability below billed charges;

(iv) The Government already has entered into a contract to pay for the services without the use of a purchase card;

(v) The purchaser is a beneficiary seeking medical care; or

(vi) The senior local commander or director of a hospital or laboratory determines that use of the purchase card is not appropriate or cost-effective. The Medical Prime Vendor Program and the DoD Medical Electronic Catalog Program are two examples where use of the purchase card may not be cost-effective.
