
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 215 - CONTRACTING BY NEGOTIATION
##### Subpart 215.4 - Contract Pricing
###### 215.404-1 Proposal analysis techniques.
####### Nature of transactions.

(D)The nature of a sales transaction includes the information necessary to understand the transaction, such as terms and conditions, date, quantity sold, sale price, unique requirements, the type of customer (government, distributor, retail end-user, etc.), and related agreements. It also includes warranties, key product technical specifications, maintenance agreements, and preferred customer rewards.

(vi) The contracting officer shall consider catalog prices to be reliable when they are regularly maintained and supported by relevant sales data (including any related discounts, refunds, rebates, offsets, or other adjustments). The contracting officer may request that the offeror support differences between the proposed price(s), catalog price(s), and relevant sales data.

(vii) The contracting officer may consult with the DoD cadre of experts who are available to provide expert advice to the acquisition workforce in assisting with commercial product or commercial service determinations and price reasonableness determinations. The DoD cadre of experts is identified at PGI 215.404-1(b)(vii).

(viii) When procuring a service or an end product identified by a material identifier that is available as described at PGI 204.7603, the contracting officer shall consider the Supplier Performance Risk System price risk assessments in determining if a proposed price is consistent with historical prices paid for an item or otherwise creates a risk to the Government. See also 215.403-3(a)(1).
