
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 217 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 217.1 - Mulityear Contracting
###### 217.172 Multiyear contracts for supplies.
####### e.g.,

(2) Advance procurement of components, parts, and materials necessary to manufacture a weapon system, including advance procurement to achieve economic lot purchases or more efficient production rates (see paragraphs (h)(3) and (4) of this section regarding economic order quantity procurements) (10 U.S.C. 3501(h)(2)). Before initiating an advance procurement, the contracting officer must verify that it is consistent with DoD policy (the full funding policy in Volume 2A, chapter 1, of DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation).

(h) The head of the agency shall ensure that the following conditions are satisfied before awarding a multiyear contract for a defense acquisition program that has been specifically authorized by law to be carried out using multiyear contract authority:

(1) The multiyear exhibits required by DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, are included in the agency's budget estimate submission and the President's budget request.

(2) The Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress in writing, by no later than 30 days before entry into such contracts, that each of the conditions in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section is satisfied (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)).

(i) The Secretary has determined that each of the requirements in FAR 17.105-1, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5), will be met by such contract and has provided the basis for such determination to the congressional defense committees (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(A)).

(ii) The Secretary's determination under paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section was made after the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Defense Cost and Resource Center of the Department of Defense and such analysis supports the findings (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(B)).

(iii) The system being acquired pursuant to such contract has not been determined to have experienced cost growth in excess of the critical cost growth threshold pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 4371(a)(3) within 5 years prior to the date the Secretary anticipates such contract (or a contract for advance procurement entered into consistent with the authorization for such contract) will be awarded (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(C)).

(iv) A sufficient number of end items of the system being acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within the most current estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system to determine that current estimates of such unit costs are realistic (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(D)).

(v) Sufficient funds will be available in the fiscal year in which the contract is to be awarded to perform the contract, and the future-years defense program for such fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the program without cancellation (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(E)).

(vi) The contract is a fixed price type contract (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(F)).

(vii) The proposed multiyear contract provides for production at not less than minimum economic rates, given the existing tooling and facilities (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(3)(G)). The head of the agency shall submit to OUSD(C)(P/B) information supporting the agency's determination that this requirement has been met.

(viii) The head of the agency shall submit information supporting this certification to OUSD(C)(P/B)& for transmission to Congress through the Secretary of Defense.

(A) The head of the agency shall, as part of this certification, give written notification to the congressional defense committees of-
