
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 217 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 217.1 - Mulityear Contracting
###### 217.172 Multiyear contracts for supplies.
####### 3

() A financial risk assessment of not including the budgeting for costs of contract cancellation (10 U.S.C. 3501(g)); and

(B) The head of the agency shall provide copies of the notification to the Office of Management and Budget at least 14 days before contract award.

(3) The contract is for the procurement of a complete and usable end item (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(5)(A)).

(4) Funds appropriated for any fiscal year for advance procurement are obligated only for the procurement of those long-lead items that are necessary in order to meet a planned delivery schedule for complete major end items that are programmed under the contract to be acquired with funds appropriated for a subsequent fiscal year (including an economic order quantity of such long-lead items when authorized by law (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(5)(B)).

(5) The Secretary may make the certification under paragraph (h)(2) of this section notwithstanding the fact that one or more of the conditions of such certification are not met if the Secretary determines that, due to exceptional circumstances, proceeding with a multiyear contract under this section is in the best interest of the Department of Defense and the Secretary provides the basis for such determination with the certification (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(6)).

(6) The Secretary of Defense may not delegate this authority to make the certification under paragraph (h)(2) of this section or the determination under paragraph (h)(5) of this section to an official below the level of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(7)).

(7) All other requirements of law are met and there are no other statutory restrictions on using a multiyear contract for the specific system or component. One such restriction may be the achievement of specified cost savings. If the agency finds, after negotiations with the contractor(s), that the specified savings cannot be achieved, the head of the agency shall assess the savings that, nevertheless, could be achieved by using a multiyear contract. If the savings are substantial, the head of the agency may request relief from the law's specific savings requirement (10 U.S.C. 3501(i)(4)). The request shall-

(i) Quantify the savings that can be achieved;

(ii) Explain any other benefits to the Government of using the multiyear contract;

(iii) Include details regarding the negotiated contract terms and conditions; and

(iv) Be submitted to OUSD(A&S)(DPC) for transmission to Congress via the Secretary of Defense and the President.

(i) The Secretary of Defense may instruct the head of the agency proposing a multiyear contract to include in that contract negotiated priced options for varying the quantities of end items to be procured over the life of the contract (10 U.S.C. 3501(j)).

(j) Any requests for increased funding or reprogramming for procurement of a major system under a multiyear contract shall be accompanied by an explanation of how the request for increased funding affects the determinations made by the Secretary of Defense under 217.172(h)(2) (10 U.S.C. 3501(m)).
