
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 217 - SPECIAL CONTRACTING METHODS
##### Subpart 217.2 - Options
###### 217.204 Contracts.

(e)(i) Notwithstanding FAR 17.204(e), the ordering period of a task order or delivery order contract (including a contract for information technology) awarded by DoD pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3403-

(A) May be for any period up to 5 years;

(B) May be subsequently extended for one or more successive periods in accordance with an option provided in the contract or a modification of the contract; and

(C) Shall not exceed 10 years unless the head of the agency determines in writing that exceptional circumstances require a longer ordering period.

(ii) Paragraph (e)(i) of this section does not apply to the following:

(A) Contracts, including task or delivery order contracts, awarded under other statutory authority.

(B) Advisory and assistance service task order contracts (authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3405 that are limited by statute to 5 years, with the authority to extend an additional 6 months (see FAR 16.505(c)).

(C) Definite-quantity contracts.

(D) GSA schedule contracts.

(E) Multi-agency contracts awarded by agencies other than NASA, DoD, or the Coast Guard.

(iii) Obtain approval from the senior procurement executive before issuing an order against a task or delivery order contract subject to paragraph (e)(i) of this section, if performance under the order is expected to extend more than 1 year beyond the 10-year limit or extended limit described in paragraph (e)(i)(C) of this section (see FAR 37.106 for funding and term of service contracts).
