
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 219 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 219.2 - Policies
###### 219.201 General policy.

(c) For the defense agencies, the director of the Office of Small Business Programs must be appointed by, be responsible to, and report directly to the director or deputy director of the defense agency.

(8) The responsibility for assigning small business technical advisors is delegated to the head of the contracting activity.

(10) Contracting activity small business specialists perform this function by-

(A) Reviewing and making recommendations for all acquisitions (including orders placed against Federal Supply Schedule contracts) over the micro-purchase threshold (see FAR 19.502-2(a)), except those under the simplified acquisition threshold that are totally set aside for small business concerns in accordance with FAR 19.502-2. Follow the procedures at PGI 219.201(c)(10) regarding such reviews.

(B) Making the review before issuance of the solicitation or contract modification and documenting it on DD Form 2579, Small Business Coordination Record (see PGI 253.219-70 for instructions on completing the form); and

(C) Referring recommendations that have been rejected by the contracting officer to the Small Business Administration (SBA) procurement center representative. If an SBA procurement center representative is not assigned, see FAR 19.402(a).

(11) Also conduct annual reviews to assess-

(A) The extent of consolidation of contract requirements that has occurred (see FAR 7.107); and

(B) The impact of those consolidations on the availability of small business concerns to participate in procurements as both contractors and subcontractors.

(d) For information on the appointment and functions of small business specialists, see PGI 219.201(d).
