
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 219 - SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 219.71 - Pilot Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program
###### 219.7103-2 Contracting officer responsibilities.

Contracting officers shall-

(a) Negotiate an advance agreement on the treatment of developmental assistance costs for either credit or reimbursement if the mentor firm proposes such an agreement, or delegate authority to negotiate to the administrative contracting officer (see FAR 31.109).

(b) Modify (without consideration) applicable contract(s) to incorporate the clause at 252.232-7005, Reimbursement of Subcontractor Advance Payments-DoD Pilot Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program, when a mentor firm provides advance payments to a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm under the Program and the mentor firm requests reimbursement of advance payments.

(c) Modify (without consideration) applicable contract(s) to incorporate other than customary progress payments for prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms in accordance with FAR 32.504(c) if a mentor firm provides such payments to a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm and the mentor firm requests reimbursement.

(d) Modify applicable contract(s) to establish a contract line item for reimbursement of developmental assistance costs if-

(1) A DoD program manager or the Director, OSBP, of the cognizant military department or defense agency has made funds available for that purpose; and

(2) The contractor has an approved mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement.

(e) Negotiate and award a separate contract for reimbursement of developmental assistance costs only if-

(1) Funds are available for that purpose;

(2) The contractor has an approved mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement; and

(3) The Director, OSBP, of the military department or defense agency has made a determination in accordance with 219.7102(d)(1)(ii).

(f) Not authorize reimbursement for costs of assistance furnished to a prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm in excess of $1 million in a fiscal year unless a written determination from the Director, OSBP, of the military department or defense agency is obtained.

(g) Advise contractors of reporting requirements in appendix I.

(h) Provide a copy of the approved mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement to the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) small business professional responsible for conducting the annual performance review (see appendix I, section I-113).
