
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 222 - APPLICATION OF LABOR LAWS TO GOVERNMENT ACQUISITIONS
##### Subpart 222.4 - Labor Standards for Contracts Involving Construction
###### 222.402-70 Installation support contracts.
####### Repairs versus maintenance.

(d)Some contract work may be characterized as either Construction Wage Rate Requirements painting/repairs or Service Contract Labor Standards maintenance. For example, replacing broken windows, spot painting, or minor patching of a wall could be covered by either the Construction Wage Rate Requirements or the Service Contract Labor Standards. In those instances where a contract service call or order requires construction trade skills (i.e., carpenter, plumber, painter, etc.), but it is unclear whether the work required is Service Contract Labor Standards maintenance or Construction Wage Rate Requirements painting/repairs, apply the following rules:

(1) Individual service calls or orders which will require a total of 32 or more work hours to perform shall be considered to be repair work subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements.

(2) Individual service calls or orders which will require less than 32 work hours to perform shall be considered to be maintenance subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards.

(3) Painting work of 200 square feet or more to be performed under an individual service call or order shall be considered to be subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute regardless of the total work hours required.

(e) The determination of labor standards application shall be made at the time the solicitation is prepared in those cases where requirements can be identified. Otherwise, the determination shall be made at the time the service call or order is placed against the contract. The service call or order shall identify the labor standards law and contract wage determination which will apply to the work required.

(f) Contracting officers may not avoid application of the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute by splitting individual tasks between orders or contracts.
