
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.1 - Buy American - Supplies
###### 225.103 Exceptions.
####### 3

() By the agency head for acquisitions valued at $1.5 million or more.

(b)(i) A determination that an article, material, or supply is not reasonably available is required when domestic offers are insufficient to meet the requirement and award is to be made on other than a qualifying country or eligible end product.

(ii) Except as provided in FAR 25.103(b)(3), the determination shall be approved-

(A) At a level above the contracting officer for acquisitions valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold;

(B) By the chief of the contracting office for acquisitions with a value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold but less than $1.5 million; or

(C) By the head of the contracting activity or immediate deputy for acquisitions valued at $1.5 million or more.

(iii) A separate determination as to whether an article is reasonably available is not required for the following articles. DoD has already determined that these articles are not reasonably available from domestic sources:

(A) Spare or replacement parts that must be acquired from the original foreign manufacturer or supplier.

(B) Foreign drugs acquired by the Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia, when the Director, Pharmaceuticals Group, Directorate of Medical Materiel, determines that only the requested foreign drug will fulfill the requirements.

(iv) Under coordinated acquisition (see Subpart 208.70), the determination is the responsibility of the requiring department when the requiring department specifies acquisition of a foreign end product.

(c) The cost of a domestic end product is unreasonable if it is not the low evaluated offer when evaluated under Subpart 225.5.
