
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.5 - Evaluating Foreign Offers - Supply Contracts
###### 225.502 Application.

(a) Whenever the acquisition is in support of operations in Afghanistan, treat the offers of end products from South Caucasus or Central and South Asian states listed in 225.401-70 the same as qualifying country offers.

(b) Use the following procedures instead of the procedures in FAR 25.502(b) for acquisitions subject to the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement:

(i) Consider only offers of U.S.-made, qualifying country, or designated country end products, except as permitted by 225.403 or 225.7703-1.

(ii) If price is the determining factor, award on the low offer.

(c) Use the following procedures instead of those in FAR 25.502(c) for acquisitions subject to the Buy American statute or the Balance of Payments Program:

(i)(A) If the acquisition is subject only to the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program, then only qualifying country end products are exempt from application of the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor.

(B) If the acquisition is also subject to a Free Trade Agreement, then eligible products of the applicable Free Trade Agreement country are also exempt from application of the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor.

(ii) If price is the determining factor, use the following procedures:

(A) If the low offer is a domestic offer, award on that offer.

(B) If there are no domestic offers, award on the low offer (see example in PGI 225.504(1)).

(C) If the low offer is a foreign offer that is exempt from application of the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor, award on that offer. (If the low offer is a qualifying country offer from a country listed at 225.872-1(b), execute a determination in accordance with 225.872-4.)

(D) If the low offer is a foreign offer that is not exempt from application of the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor, and there is another foreign offer that is exempt and is lower than the lowest domestic offer, award on the low foreign offer (see example in PGI 225.504(2)).

(E) Otherwise, apply the 50 percent evaluation factor to the low foreign offer.
