
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.8 - Other International Agreements and Coordination
###### 225.870-4 Contracting procedures.
####### 2

() Fixed-price, if the contract value is expected to exceed $500 million.

(B) If the Canadian Commercial Corporation submits the only offer in response to a competitive solicitation that meets the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(C) For modifications that exceed $150,000 in contracts that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.

(D) In competitive solicitations in which data other than certified cost or pricing data are required from all offerors.

(ii) In any circumstances other than those specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the contracting officer shall only require data other than certified cost or pricing data from the Canadian Commercial Corporation if the head of the contracting activity, or designee no lower than two levels above the contracting officer, determines that data other than certified cost or pricing data are needed (or in the case of modifications that it is reasonably certain that data other than certified cost or pricing data will be needed) in order to determine that the price is fair and reasonable) (see FAR 15.403-3(a).

(3) The contracting officer shall use the provision at 252.215-7003, Requirement for Submission of Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Canadian Commercial Corporation, and the clause at 252.215-7004, Requirement for Submission of Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications-Canadian Commercial Corporation, as prescribed at 215.408(2)(i) and (ii), respectively.

(4) Except for contracts described in 225.870-1(c)(1) through (4), Canadian suppliers will provide required data other than certified cost or pricing data exclusively through the Canadian Commercial Corporation.

(5) As specified in FAR 15.403-3(a)(4), an offeror who does not comply with a requirement to submit data that the contracting officer has deemed necessary to determine price reasonableness or cost realism is ineligible for award, unless the head of the contracting activity determines that it is in the best interest of the Government to make the award to that offeror, based on consideration of the following:

(i) The effort made to obtain the data.

(ii) The need for the item or service.

(iii) Increased cost or significant harm to the Government if award is not made.
