
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.11 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses
###### 225.1101 Acquisition of supplies.
####### 2

() 252.225-7036, Buy American -Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program; or

(F) All line items will be acquired using a procedure specified in 225.7703-1(a).

(ii) Use the basic clause if the acquisition is not of end products listed in 225.401-70 in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(iii) Use the alternate I clause when the acquisition is of end products listed in 225.401-70 in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(3) Use the clause at 252.225-7002, Qualifying Country Sources as Subcontractors, in solicitations and contracts that include the basic or one of the alternates of the following clauses:

(i) 252.225-7001, Buy American and Balance of Payments Program.

(ii) 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements.

(iii) 252.225-7036, Buy American -Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program.

(4) Use the clause at 252.225-7013, Duty-Free Entry, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-8. Do not use the clause for acquisitions of supplies that will not enter the customs territory of the United States.

(5) Use the basic or the alternate of the provision at 252.225-7020, Trade Agreements Certificate, instead of the provision at FAR 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate, in solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services , that include the basic or alternate II of the clause at 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements. If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list the provision 252.225-7020 in the solicitation.

(i) Use the basic provision if the solicitation includes the basic clause at 252.225-7021.

(ii) Use the alternate I provision if the solicitation includes alternate II of the clause at 252.225-7021.

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (6)(iv) of this section, use the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services , if the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement applies, i.e., the acquisition is of end products listed at 225.401-70, the value of the acquisition equals or exceeds $183,000, and none of the exceptions at 25.401(a) applies.

(i) Use the basic clause in solicitations and contracts that are not of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan, or that include the clause at 252.225-7024, Requirement for Products or Services from Afghanistan.

(ii) Use the alternate II clause in solicitations and contracts that do not include the clause at 252.225-7024, Requirement for Products or Services from Afghanistan, when the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(iii) Do not use the basic or an alternate of the clause if-

(A) Purchase from foreign sources is restricted, unless the contracting officer anticipates a waiver of the restriction; or

(B) The clause at 252.225-7026, Acquisition Restricted to Products or Services from Afghanistan, is included in the solicitation and contract.

(iv) The acquisition of eligible and noneligible products under the same contract may result in the application of trade agreements to only some of the items acquired. In such case, indicate in the Schedule those items covered by the Trade Agreements clause.

(7) Use the provision at 252.225-7032, Waiver of United Kingdom Levies-Evaluation of Offers, in solicitations if a U.K. firm is expected to-

(i) Submit an offer; or

(ii) Receive a subcontract exceeding $1 million.

(8) Use the clause at 252.225-7033, Waiver of United Kingdom Levies, in solicitations and contracts if a U.K. firm is expected to-

(i) Submit an offer; or

(ii) Receive a subcontract exceeding $1 million.

(9) Use the basic or an alternate of the provision at 252.225-7035, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program Certificate, instead of the provision at FAR 52.225-4, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, in solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, that include the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7036, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program. If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list the provision 252.225-7035 in the solicitation.

(i) Use the basic provision in solicitations when the basic of the clause at 252.225-7036 is used.

(ii) Use the alternate I provision when the solicitation includes alternate I of the clause at 252.225-7036.

(iii) Use the alternate II provision when the solicitation includes alternate II of the clause at 252.225-7036.

(iv) Use the alternate III provision when the solicitation includes alternate III of the clause at 252.225-7036.

(v) Use the alternate IV provision when the solicitation includes alternate IV of the clause at 252.225-7036.

(vi) Use the alternate V provision when the solicitation includes alternate V of the clause at 252.225-7036.

(10)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (10)(ii) of this section, use the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7036, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, for the items listed at 225.401-70, when the estimated value is less than $183,000, unless an exception at FAR 25.401 or 225.401 applies.

(A) Use the basic clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $100,000, but is less than $183,000, except if the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(B) Use the alternate I clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value is less than $92,319, except if the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(C) Use the alternate II clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value is less than $183,000, and the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(D) Use the alternate III clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $25,000, but is less than $92,319, and the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(E) Use the alternate IV clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $92,319 but is less than $100,000, except if the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(F) Use the alternate V clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $92,319 but is less than $100,000 and the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(ii) Do not use the basic or an alternate of the clause in paragraph (10)(i) of this section if-

(A) Purchase from foreign sources is restricted (see 225.401(a)(2)), unless the contracting officer anticipates a waiver of the restriction;

(B) Acquiring information technology that is a commercial product, using fiscal year 2004 or subsequent funds sSection 535 of Division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (Pub. L. 108-199), and the same provision in subsequent appropriations acts); or

(C) Using a procedure specified in 225.7703-1(a).

(iii) The acquisition of eligible and noneligible products under the same contract may result in the application of a Free Trade Agreement to only some of the items acquired. In such case, indicate in the Schedule those items covered by the Buy American -Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program clause.
