
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.70 - Authorization Acts, Appropriations Acts, and Other Statutory Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition
###### 225.7002-1 Restrictions.

(a) The following restrictions implement 10 U.S.C. 4862 (the "Berry Amendment"). Except as provided in 225.7002-2, do not acquire-

(1) Any of the following items, either as end products or components, unless the items have been grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States:

(i) Food.

(ii) Clothing and the materials and components thereof, other than sensors, electronics, or other items added to, and not normally associated with, clothing and the materials and components thereof. Clothing includes items such as outerwear, headwear, underwear, nightwear, footwear, hosiery, handwear, belts, badges, and insignia. For additional guidance and examples, see PGI 225.7002-1(a)(1)(ii).

(iii)(A) Tents and the structural components of tents;

(B) Tarpaulins; or

(C) Covers.

(iv) Cotton and other natural fiber products.

(v) Woven silk or woven silk blends.

(vi) Spun silk yarn for cartridge cloth.

(vii) Synthetic fabric or coated synthetic fabric, including all textile fibers and yarns that are for use in such fabrics.

(viii) Canvas products.

(ix) Wool (whether in the form of fiber or yarn or contained in fabrics, materials, or manufactured articles).

(x) Any item of individual equipment (Product or Service Code (PSC) 8465) manufactured from or containing any of the fibers, yarns, fabrics, or materials listed in this paragraph (a)(1).

(2) Hand or measuring tools, unless the tools were produced in the United States. For additional guidance, see PGI 225.7002-1(a)(2).
