
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.70 - Authorization Acts, Appropriations Acts, and Other Statutory Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition
###### 225.7002-2 Exceptions.
####### See

(b) Acquisitions of any of the items in 225.7002-1, if the Secretary concerned determines that items grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States cannot be acquired as and when needed in a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity at U.S. market prices. (the requirement in 205.301 for synopsis within 7 days after contract award when using this exception.)

(1) The following officials are authorized, without power of redelegation, to make such a domestic nonavailability determination:

(i) The Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics).

(ii) The Secretary of the Army.

(iii) The Secretary of the Navy.

(iv) The Secretary of the Air Force.

(v) The Director of the Defense Logistics Agency.

(2) The supporting documentation for the determination shall include an analysis and written certification by the requiring activity, with specificity, why alternatives that would not require a domestic nonavailability determination are unacceptable.

(3) Defense agencies other than the Defense Logistics Agency shall follow the procedures at PGI 225.7002-2(b)(3) when submitting a request for a domestic nonavailability determination.

(c) Acquisitions of items listed in FAR 25.104(a).

(d) Acquisitions outside the United States in support of combat operations.

(e) Acquisitions of perishable foods by or for activities located outside the United States for personnel of those activities.

(f) Acquisitions of food or hand or measuring tools-

(1) In support of contingency operations; or

(2) For which the use of other than competitive procedures has been approved on the basis of unusual and compelling urgency in accordance with FAR 6.302-2.

(g) Emergency acquisitions by activities located outside the United States for personnel of those activities.

(h) Acquisitions by vessels in foreign waters.

(i) Acquisitions of items specifically for commissary resale.

(j) Acquisitions of incidental amounts of cotton, other natural fibers, or wool incorporated in an end product, for which the estimated value of the cotton, other natural fibers, or wool-

(1) Is not more than 10 percent of the total price of the end product; and

(2) Does not exceed the threshold at 225.7002-2(a).

(k) Acquisitions of waste and byproducts of cotton or wool fiber for use in the production of propellants and explosives.

(l) Acquisitions of foods manufactured or processed in the United States, regardless of where the foods (and any component if applicable) were grown or produced. However, in accordance with section 8118 of the DoD Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Pub. L. 108-287), this exception does not apply to fish, shellfish, or seafood manufactured or processed in the United States or fish, shellfish, or seafood contained in foods manufactured or processed in the United States.

(m) Acquisitions of fibers and yarns that are for use in synthetic fabric or coated synthetic fabric (but not the purchase of the synthetic or coated synthetic fabric itself), if-

(1) The fabric is to be used as a component of an end product that is not a textile product. Examples of textile products, made in whole or in part of fabric, include-

(i) Draperies, floor coverings, furnishings, and bedding PSG 72, Household and Commercial Furnishings and Appliances);

(ii) Items made in whole or in part of fabric in PSG 83, Textile/leather/furs/apparel/findings/tents/flags, or Federal Supply Group 84, Clothing, Individual Equipment and Insignia;

(iii) Upholstered seats (whether for household, office, or other use); and

(iv) Parachutes (Product or Service Group (PSG) 1670); or

(2) The fibers and yarns are para-aramid fibers and continuous filament para-aramid yarns manufactured in a qualifying country.

(n) Acquisitions of chemical warfare protective clothing when the acquisition furthers an agreement with a qualifying country. (See 225.003(10) and the requirement in 205.301 for synopsis within 7 days after contract award when using this exception.)

(o) Acquisitions that are interagency, State, or local purchases that are executed by DoD as a result of the transfer of contracts from the General Services Administration or for which DoD serves as an item manager for products on behalf of the General Services Administration. According to section 897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Pub. L. 114-92), such contracts shall not be subject to requirements under subchapter II of chapter 385 (including 10 U.S.C. 4862), to the extent such contracts are for purchases of products by other Federal agencies or State or local governments.
