
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.70 - Authorization Acts, Appropriations Acts, and Other Statutory Restrictions on Foreign Acquisition
###### 225.7003-3 Exceptions.

(a) Acquisitions in the following categories are not subject to the restrictions in 225.7003-2:

(1) Acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.

(2) Acquisitions outside the United States in support of combat operations.

(3) Acquisitions in support of contingency operations.

(4) Acquisitions for which the use of other than competitive procedures has been approved on the basis of unusual and compelling urgency in accordance with FAR 6.302-2.

(5) Acquisitions of items specifically for commissary resale.

(6) Acquisitions of items for test and evaluation under the foreign comparative testing program (10 U.S.C. 2350a(g)). However, this exception does not apply to any acquisitions under follow-on production contracts.

(b) One or more of the following exceptions may apply to an end item or component that includes any of the following, under a prime contract or subcontract at any tier. The restrictions in 225.7003-2 do not apply to the following:

(1) Electronic components, unless the Secretary of Defense, upon the recommendation of the Strategic Materials Protection Board pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 187, determines that the domestic availability of a particular electronic component is critical to national security.

(2)(i) Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) items containing specialty metals, except the restrictions do apply to contracts or subcontracts for the acquisition of-

(A) Specialty metal mill products, such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, and sheet, that have not been incorporated into end items, subsystems, assemblies, or components. Specialty metal supply contracts issued by COTS producers are not subcontracts for the purposes of this exception;

(B) Forgings or castings of specialty metals, unless the forgings or castings are incorporated into COTS end items, subsystems, or assemblies;

(C) Commercially available high performance magnets that contain specialty metal, unless such high performance magnets are incorporated into COTS end items or subsystems (see PGI 225.7003-3(b)(6) for a table of applicability of specialty metals restrictions to magnets); and

(D) COTS fasteners, unless-
