
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE AND INFORMATION MATTERS
##### Subpart 4.21 - Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment
###### 4.2103 Procedures.
####### Representations.

(a)

(1)(i) If the offeror selects "does not" in paragraphs (c)(1) and/or (c)(2) of the provision at 52.204-26 or in paragraphs (v)(2)(i) and/or (v)(2)(ii) of the provision at 52.212-3, the contracting officer may rely on the "does not" representation(s), unless the contracting officer has reason to question the representation. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the representation, the contracting officer shall follow agency procedures.

(ii) If the offeror selects "does" in paragraph (c)(1) of the provision at 52.204-26 or paragraph (v)(2)(i) of the provision at 52.212-3, the offeror will be required to complete the representation in paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at 52.204-24.

(iii) If the offeror selects "does" in paragraph (c)(2) of the provision at 52.204-26 or paragraph (v)(2)(ii) of the provision at 52.212-3, the offeror will be required to complete the representation in paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at 52.204-24.

(2)(i) If the offeror selects "will not" in paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at 52.204-24 or "does not" in paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at 52.204-24, the contracting officer may rely on the representations, unless the contracting officer has reason to question the representations. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the representations, the contracting officer shall follow agency procedures.

(ii) If an offeror selects "will" in paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at 52.204-24, the offeror must provide the information required by paragraph (e)(1) of the provision at 52.204-24, and the contracting officer shall follow agency procedures.

(iii) If an offeror selects "does" in paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at 52.204-24, the offeror must complete the disclosure at paragraph (e)(2) of the provision at 52.204-24, and the contracting officer shall follow agency procedures.
