
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.75 - Balance of Payments Program
###### 225.7503 Contract clauses.

Unless the entire acquisition is exempt from the Balance of Payments Program-

(a) Use the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7044, Balance of Payments Program-Construction Material, in solicitations and contracts for construction to be performed outside the United States, including acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services or components, with an estimated value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold but less than $7,032,000.

(1) Use the basic clause unless the acquisition is in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(2) Use the alternate I clause if the acquisition is in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(b) Use the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7045, Balance of Payments Program-Construction Material Under Trade Agreements, in solicitations and contracts for construction to be performed outside the United States with an estimated value of $7,032,000 or more, including acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services or components.

(1) Use the basic clause in solicitations and contracts with an estimated value of $12,001,460 or more, unless the acquisition is in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(2) Use the alternate I clause in solicitations and contracts with an estimated value of $7,032,000 or more, but less than $12,001,460 unless the acquisition is in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(3) Use the alternate II clause in solicitations and contracts with an estimated value of $12,001,460 or more and is in support of operations in Afghanistan.

(4) Use the alternate III clause in solicitations and contracts with an estimated value of $7,032,000 or more, but less than $12,001,460, and is in support of operations in Afghanistan.
