
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 225 - FOREIGN ACQUISITION
##### Subpart 225.77 - Acquisitions in Support of Operations in Afghanistan
###### 225.7703-4 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) Use the provision at 252.225-7023, Preference for Products or Services from Afghanistan, in solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services , that provide a preference for products or services from Afghanistan in accordance with 225.7703-1(a)(1). The contracting officer may modify the 50 percent evaluation factor in accordance with contracting office procedures.

(b) Use the clause at 252.225-7024, Requirement for Products or Services from Afghanistan, in solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, that include the provision at 252.225-7023, Preference for Products or Services from Afghanistan, and in the resulting contract.

(c) Use the clause at 252.225-7026, Acquisition Restricted to Products or Services from Afghanistan, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, that-

(1) Are restricted to the acquisition of products or services from Afghanistan in accordance with 225.7703-1(a)(2); or

(2) Will be directed to a particular source or sources from Afghanistan in accordance with 225.7703-1(a)(3).

(d) Use the clause at 252.225-7029, Acquisition of Uniform Components for Afghan Military or Afghan National Police, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial items, for the acquisition of any textile components that DoD intends to supply to the Afghan National Army or the Afghan National Police for purposes of production of uniforms.

(e) When the Trade Agreements Act applies to the acquisition, use the appropriate clause and provision as prescribed at 225.1101 (5) and (6).

(f) Do not use any of the following provisions or clauses in solicitations or contracts that include the provision at 252.225-7023, the clause at 252.225-7024, or the clause at 252.225-7026:

(1) 252.225-7000, Buy American-Balance of Payments Program Certificate.

(2) 252.225-7001, Buy American and Balance of Payments Program.

(3) 252.225-7002, Qualifying Country Sources as Subcontractors.

(4) 252.225-7035, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program Certificate.

(5) 252.225-7036, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Balance of Payments Program.

(6) 252.225-7044, Balance of Payments Program-Construction Material.

(7) 252.225-7045, Balance of Payments Program-Construction Material Under Trade Agreements.

(g) Do not use the following clause or provision in solicitations or contracts that include the clause at 252.225-7026:

(1) 252.225-7020, Trade Agreements Certificate.

(2) 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements.
