
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 227.71 - Technical Data and Associated Rights
###### 227.7103-5 Government rights.
####### Specifically negotiated license rights.

(d)(1) Negotiate specific licenses when the parties agree to modify the standard license rights granted to the government or when the government wants to obtain rights in data in which it does not have rights. When negotiating to obtain, relinquish, or increase the Government's rights in technical data, consider the acquisition strategy for the item, component, or process, including logistics support and other factors which may have relevance for a particular procurement. The Government may accept lesser rights when it has unlimited or government purpose rights in data but may not accept less than limited rights in such data. The negotiated license rights must stipulate what rights the Government has to release or disclose the data to other persons or to authorize others to use the data. Identify all negotiated rights in a license agreement made part of the contract.

(2) When the Government needs additional rights in data acquired with government purpose or limited rights, the contracting officer must negotiate with the contractor to determine whether there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights. Generally, such negotiations should be conducted only when there is a need to disclose the data outside the Government or if the additional rights are required for competitive reprocurement and the anticipated savings expected to be obtained through competition are estimated to exceed the acquisition cost of the additional rights. Prior to negotiating for additional rights in limited rights data, consider alternatives such as-

(i) Using performance specifications and form, fit, and function data to acquire or develop functionally equivalent items, components, or processes;

(ii) Obtaining a contractor's contractual commitment to qualify additional sources and maintain adequate competition among the sources; or

(iii) Reverse engineering, or providing items from Government inventories to contractors who request the items to facilitate the development of equivalent items through reverse engineering.
