
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 227.71 - Technical Data and Associated Rights
###### 227.7103-13 Government right to review, verify, challenge, and validate asserted restrictions.
####### Commercial products and commercial services-presumption regarding development exclusively at private expense.

(2)10 U.S.C. 3772(a)(1) and 3784 establish a presumption and procedures regarding validation of asserted restrictions for technical data related to commercial products or commercial services on the basis of development exclusively at private expense. Contracting officers shall presume that a commercial product or commercial service was developed exclusively at private expense whether or not a contractor or subcontractor submits a justification in response to a challenge notice. The contracting officer shall not challenge a contractor's assertion that a commercial product or commercial service was developed exclusively at private expense unless the Government can specifically state the reasonable grounds to question the validity of the assertion. The challenge notice shall include sufficient information to reasonably demonstrate that the commercial product or commercial service was not developed exclusively at private expense. In order to sustain the challenge, the contracting officer shall provide information demonstrating that the commercial product or commercial service was not developed exclusively at private expense. The challenge notice and all related correspondence shall be subject to handling procedures for classified information and controlled unclassified information. A contractor's or subcontractor's failure to respond to the challenge notice cannot be the sole basis for issuing a final decision denying the validity of an asserted restriction.
