
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 227.72 - Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Associated Rights
###### 227.7203-10 Contractor identification and marking of computer software or computer software documentation to be furnished with restrictive markings.
####### Identification requirements.

(a)(1) The solicitation provision at 252.227-7017, Identification and Assertion of Use, Release, or Disclosure Restrictions, requires offerors to identify, prior to contract award, any computer software or computer software documentation that an offeror asserts should be provided to the Government with restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, or disclosure. This requirement does not apply to restrictions based solely on copyright. The notification and identification must be submitted as an attachment to the offer. If an offeror fails to submit the attachment or fails to complete the attachment in accordance with the requirements of the solicitation provision, such failure shall constitute a minor informality. Provide offerors an opportunity to remedy a minor informality in accordance with the procedures at FAR 14.405 or 15.306(a). An offeror's failure to correct an informality within the time prescribed by the contracting officer shall render the offer ineligible for award.

(2) The procedures for correcting minor informalities shall not be used to obtain information regarding asserted restrictions or an offeror's suggested asserted rights category. Questions regarding the justification for an asserted restriction or asserted rights category must be pursued in accordance with the procedures at 227.7203-13.

(3) The restrictions asserted by a successful offeror shall be attached to its contract unless, in accordance with the procedures at 227.7203-13, the parties have agreed that an asserted restriction is not justified. The contract attachment shall provide the same information regarding identification of the computer software or computer software documentation, the asserted rights category, the basis for the assertion, and the name of the person asserting the restrictions as required by paragraph (d) of the solicitation provision at 252.227-7017. Subsequent to contract award, the clause at 252.227-7014, Rights in Other Than Commercial Computer Software and Other Than Commercial Computer Software Documentation, permits a contractor to make additional assertions under certain conditions. The additional assertions must be made in accordance with the procedures and in the format prescribed by that clause.

(4) Neither the pre- or post-award assertions made by the contractor nor the fact that certain assertions are identified in the attachment to the contract, determine the respective rights of the parties. As provided at 227.7203-13, the Government has the right to review, verify, challenge and validate restrictive markings.

(5) Information provided by offerors in response to the solicitation provision at 252.227-7017 may be used in the source selection process to evaluate the impact on evaluation factors that may be created by restrictions on the Government's ability to use or disclose computer software or computer software documentation.
