
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 227.72 - Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Associated Rights
###### 227.7203-10 Contractor identification and marking of computer software or computer software documentation to be furnished with restrictive markings.
####### Unmarked computer software or computer software documentation.

(c)(1) Computer software or computer software documentation delivered or otherwise provided under a contract without restrictive markings shall be presumed to have been delivered with unlimited rights and may be released or disclosed without restriction. To the extent practicable, if a contractor has requested permission (see paragraph (c)(2) of this subsection) to correct an inadvertent omission of markings, do not release or disclose the software or documentation pending evaluation of the request.

(2) A contractor may request permission to have appropriate legends placed on unmarked computer software or computer software documentation at its expense. The request must be received by the contracting officer within six months following the furnishing or delivery of such software or documentation, or any extension of that time approved by the contracting officer. The person making the request must-

(i) Identify the software or documentation that should have been marked;

(ii) Demonstrate that the omission of the marking was inadvertent, the proposed marking is justified and conforms with the requirements for the marking of computer software or computer software documentation contained in the clause at 252.227-7014; and

(iii) Acknowledge, in writing, that the Government has no liability with respect to any disclosure, reproduction, or use of the software or documentation made prior to the addition of the marking or resulting from the omission of the marking.

(3) Contracting officers should grant permission to mark only if the software or documentation were not distributed outside the Government or were distributed outside the Government with restrictions on further use or disclosure.
