
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 227 - PATENTS, DATA, AND COPYRIGHTS
##### Subpart 227.72 - Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and Associated Rights
###### 227.7203-12 Government right to establish conformity of markings.
####### Nonconforming markings.

(a)(1) Authorized markings are identified in the clause at 252.227-7014, Rights in Other Than Commercial Computer Software and Other Than Commercial Computer Software Documentation. All other markings are nonconforming markings. An authorized marking that is not in the form, or differs in substance, from the marking requirements in the clause at 252.227-7014 is also a nonconforming marking.

(2) The correction of nonconforming markings on computer software is not subject to 252.227-7019, Validation of Asserted Restrictions-Computer Software, and the correction of nonconforming markings on computer software documentation (technical data) is not subject to 252.227-7037, Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data. To the extent practicable, the contracting officer should return computer software or computer software documentation bearing nonconforming markings to the person who has placed the nonconforming markings on the software or documentation to provide that person an opportunity to correct or strike the nonconforming markings at that person's expense. If that person fails to correct the nonconformity and return the corrected software or documentation within 60 days following the person's receipt of the software or documentation, the contracting officer may correct or strike the nonconformity at the person's expense. When it is impracticable to return computer software or computer software documentation for correction, contracting officers may unilaterally correct any nonconforming markings at Government expense. Prior to correction, the software or documentation may be used in accordance with the proper restrictive marking.
