
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 5 - PUBLICIZING CONTRACT ACTIONS
##### Subpart 5.2 - Synopses of Proposed Contract Actions
###### 5.207 Preparation and transmittal of synopses.
####### see

(2) Specification and whether an offeror, its product, or service must meet a qualification requirement in order to be eligible for award, and identification of the office from which additional information about the qualification requirement may be obtained (subpart 9.2).

(3) Manufacturer, including part number, drawing number, etc.

(4) Size, dimensions, or other form, fit or functional description.

(5) Predominant material of manufacture.

(6) Quantity, including any options for additional quantities.

(7) Unit of issue.

(8) Destination information.

(9) Delivery schedule.

(10) Duration of the contract period.

(11) Sustainable acquisition requirements (or a description of high-performance sustainable building practices required, if for design, construction, renovation, repair, or deconstruction) (see parts 23 or 36).

(12) For a proposed contract action in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000 but not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold, enter-

(i) A description of the procedures to be used in awarding the contract (e.g., request for oral or written quotation or solicitation); and

(ii) The anticipated award date.

(13) For Architect-Engineer projects and other projects for which the product or service codes are insufficient, provide brief details with respect to: location, scope of services required, cost range and limitations, type of contract, estimated starting and completion dates, and any significant evaluation factors.

(14)(i) If the solicitation will include the FAR clause at 52.225-3, Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, or an equivalent agency clause, insert the following notice in the synopsis: "One or more of the items under this acquisition is subject to Free Trade Agreements."

(ii) If the solicitation will include the FAR clause at 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, or an equivalent agency clause, insert the following notice in the synopsis: "One or more of the items under this acquisition is subject to the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement and Free Trade Agreements."

(iii) If the solicitation will include the FAR clause at 52.225-11, Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements, 52.225-23, Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements, or an equivalent agency clause, insert the following notice in the synopsis: "One or more of the items under this acquisition is subject to the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement and Free Trade Agreements."

(15) In the case of noncompetitive contract actions (including those that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold), identify the intended source and insert a statement of the reason justifying the lack of competition.

(16)(i) Except when using the sole source authority at 6.302-1, insert a statement that all responsible sources may submit a bid, proposal, or quotation which shall be considered by the agency.

(ii) When using the sole source authority at 6.302-1, insert a statement that all responsible sources may submit a capability statement, proposal, or quotation, which shall be considered by the agency.

(17) If solicitations synopsized through the GPE will not be made available through the GPE, provide information on how to obtain the solicitation.

(18) If the solicitation will be made available to interested parties through electronic data interchange, provide any information necessary to obtain and respond to the solicitation electronically.
