
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 228 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 228.3 - Insurance
###### 228.370-1 Definitions.
####### Public aircraft

means an aircraft that meets the definition in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(41) and the qualifications in 49 U.S.C. 40125. Specifically, a public aircraft means any of the following:

(1) An aircraft used only for the Government, except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (7) of this definition.

(2) An aircraft owned by the Government and operated by any person for purposes related to crew training, equipment development, or demonstration, except as provided in paragraph (7) of this definition.

(3) An aircraft owned and operated by the government of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States or a political subdivision of one of these governments, except as provided in paragraph (7) of this definition.

(4) An aircraft exclusively leased for at least 90 continuous days by the government of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States or a political subdivision of one of these governments, except as provided in paragraph (7) of this definition.

(5) An aircraft owned or operated by the armed forces or chartered to provide transportation or other commercial air service to the armed forces under the conditions specified by 49 U.S.C. 40125(c). In the preceding sentence, the term "other commercial air service" means an aircraft operation that-

(i) Is within the United States territorial airspace;

(ii) The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration determines is available for compensation or hire to the public; and

(iii) Must comply with all applicable civil aircraft rules under title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.

(6) An unmanned aircraft that is owned and operated by, or exclusively leased for at least 90 continuous days by, an Indian Tribal government, as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122), except as provided in paragraph (7) of this definition.

(7) As described in 49 U.S.C. 40125(b), an aircraft described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this definition does not qualify as a public aircraft in situations where the aircraft is used for commercial purposes or to carry an individual other than a crewmember or a qualified non-crewmember.
