
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 228 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 228.3 - Insurance
###### 228.370-2 General.
####### Notice of revocation.

(2)If the contractor fails to correct the cited noncompliance or conditions within the specified timeframe, the contracting officer shall issue to the contractor a notice of revocation of the Government's assumption of risk for any covered aircraft.

(i) Thereafter the contractor assumes the entire risk for damage, loss, or destruction of the previously covered aircraft.

(ii) Any costs incurred by the contractor, including the costs of the contractor's self-insurance, insurance premiums paid to insure the contractor's assumption of risk, deductibles associated with such purchased insurance, etc., to mitigate its risk are unallowable costs.

(iii) The notice of revocation does not relieve the contractor of its obligation to comply with all other provisions of the clause at 252.228-7001, including the combined regulation/instruction entitled "Contractor's Flight and Ground Operations."

(iv) Within 3 days of receipt of the contractor's notice of correction, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor whether the Government will resume risk of loss. The contracting officer shall determine that the noncompliance or cited conditions have been corrected prior to resuming assumption of risk.

(v) Any disputes regarding the contracting officer's notice of revocation shall be subject to FAR clause 52.233-1, Disputes.
