
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements
#### PART 228 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
##### Subpart 228.3 - Insurance
###### 228.370-2 General.
####### Procedures in the event of damage, loss, or destruction of covered aircraft.

(i)(1) In the event of damage, loss, or destruction of covered aircraft, except in cases covered by paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the contracting officer shall evaluate the contractor's statement of-

(i) The damaged, lost, or destroyed aircraft;

(ii) The time and origin of the damage, loss, or destruction;

(iii) All known interests in commingled property of which aircraft are a part; and

(iv) The insurance, if any, covering the interest in commingled property.

(2) If a new production aircraft is damaged, lost, or destroyed before it has become a covered aircraft, the Government bears no responsibility for risk of loss.

(3) If a new production aircraft is damaged, lost, or destroyed after it has become a covered aircraft, the contracting officer shall provide written direction to the contractor to take action in accordance with the contracting officer's written direction that the aircraft shall be-

(i) Replaced;

(ii) Repaired to the condition immediately prior to the damage; or

(iii) Considered beyond economic repair. The contracting officer shall decide whether further actions are required under the contract.

(4) If a covered aircraft that has been furnished by the Government to the contractor is damaged, lost, or destroyed while covered, the contracting officer shall provide written direction to the contractor that the aircraft shall be-

(i) Repaired; or

(ii) Considered beyond economic repair. The contracting officer shall decide further actions required under the contract.

(5) The contracting officer shall make an equitable adjustment for expenditures made in performing the obligations under paragraph (h) of the clause at 252.228-7001.
