
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 237 - SERVICE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 237.1 - Service Contracts - General
###### 237.104 Personal services contracts.
####### 2,3

() Services of clinical counselors, family advocacy program staff, and victim's services representatives (see paragraph (b)(ii)(A)() of this section), shall be in accordance with agency procedures.

(D) The contracting officer must ensure that the requiring activity provides a copy of the approval with the purchase request.

(E) The contracting officer must provide adequate advance notice of contracting opportunities to individuals residing in the area of the facility. The notice must include the qualification criteria against which individuals responding will be evaluated. The contracting officer shall solicit applicants through at least one local publication which serves the area of the facility. Acquisitions under this section for personal service contracts are exempt from the posting and synopsis requirements of FAR part 5.

(F) The contracting officer shall provide the qualifications of individuals responding to the notice to the commander of the facility for evaluation and ranking in accordance with agency procedures. Individuals must be considered solely on the basis of the professional qualifications established for the particular personal services being acquired and the Government's estimate of reasonable rates, fees, or other costs. The commander of the facility shall provide the contracting officer with rationale for the ranking of individuals, consistent with the required qualifications.

(G) Upon receipt from the facility of the ranked listing of applicants, the contracting officer shall either-
