
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 237 - SERVICE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 237.71 - Laundry and Dry Cleaning Services
###### 237.7101 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) Use the provision at 252.237-7012, Instruction to Offerors (Count-of-Articles), in solicitations for laundry and dry cleaning services to be provided on a count-of-articles basis.

(b) Use the provision at 252.237-7013, Instruction to Offerors (Bulk Weight), in solicitations for laundry services to be provided on a bulk weight basis.

(c) Use the clause at 252.237-7014, Loss or Damage (Count-of-Articles), in solicitations and contracts for laundry and dry cleaning services to be provided on a count-of-articles basis.

(d) Use the clause at 252.237-7015, Loss or Damage (Weight of Articles), in solicitations and contracts for laundry and dry cleaning services to be provided on a bulk weight basis.

(1) Insert a reasonable per pound price in paragraph (b) of the clause, based on the average per pound value. When the contract requires laundry services on a bag type basis, insert reasonable per pound prices by bag type.

(2) Insert an appropriate percentage in paragraph (e) of the clause, not to exceed eight percent.

(e) Use the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.237-7016, Delivery Tickets, in all solicitations and contracts for laundry and dry cleaning services.

(1) Use the basic clause when services are not to be provided on a bulk weight basis.

(2) Use the alternate I clause when services are for bag type laundry to be provided on a bulk weight basis.

(3) Use the alternate II clause when services are unsorted laundry to be provided on a bulk weight basis.

(f) Use the clause at 252.237-7017, Individual Laundry, in solicitations and contracts for laundry and dry cleaning services to be provided to individual personnel.

(1) Insert the number of pieces of outer garments in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of the clause.

(2) The number of pieces and composition of a bundle in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of the clause may be modified to meet local conditions.

(g) Use the clause at 252.237-7018, Special Definitions of Government Property, in all solicitations and contracts for laundry and dry cleaning services.
