
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 239 - ACQUISITION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart 239.74 - Telecommunications Services
###### 239.7411 Contract clauses.

(a) In addition to other appropriate FAR and DFARS clauses, use the following clauses in solicitations, contracts, and basic agreements for telecommunications services. Modify the clauses only if necessary to meet the requirements of a governmental regulatory agency.

(1) 252.239-7002, Access.

(2) 252.239-7004, Orders for Facilities and Services.

(3) 252.239-7007, Cancellation or Termination of Orders.

(b) Use the following clauses in solicitations, contracts, and basic agreements for telecommunications services when the acquisition includes or may include special construction. Modify the clauses only if necessary to meet the requirements of a governmental regulatory agency-

(1) 252.239-7011, Special Construction and Equipment Charges; and

(2) 252.239-7012, Title to Telecommunication Facilities and Equipment.

(c) Use the basic or alternate of the clause at 252.239-7013, Term of Agreement and Continuation of Services, in basic agreements for telecommunications services.

(1) Use the basic clause in basic agreements that do not supersede an existing basic agreement with the contractor.

(2) Use the alternate I clause in basic agreements that supersede an existing basic agreement with the contractor. Complete paragraph (c)(1) of the clause with the basic agreement number, date, and contacting office that issued the basic agreement being superseded.

(d) Use the clause at 252.239-7016, Telecommunications Security Equipment, Devices, Techniques, and Services, in solicitations and contracts when performance of a contract requires secure telecommunications.
