
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 242 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 242.3 - Contract Administration Office Functions
###### 242.302 Contract administration functions.

(a) (7) See 242.7502 for ACO responsibilities with regard to receipt of an audit report identifying significant accounting system or related internal control deficiencies.

(9) For additional contract administration functions related to IR&D projects and B&P projects performed by major contractors, see 242.771-3(a).

(12) Also perform all payment administration in accordance with any applicable payment clauses.

(13)(A) Do not delegate the responsibility to make payments to the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA).

(B) Follow the procedures at PGI 242.302(a)(13)(B) for designation of payment offices.

(39) See 223.370 for contract administration responsibilities on contracts for ammunition and explosives.

(56) Within DoD, maintaining surveillance of aircraft flight and ground operations is accomplished by incorporating into the contract, task order, or delivery order the requirements of the applicable version of the combined regulation/instruction entitled "Contractor's Flight and Ground Operations" (Air Force Instruction 10-220, Army Regulation 95-20, Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) Instruction 3710.1 (Series), Coast Guard Instruction M13020.3 (Series), and Defense Contract Management Agency Instruction 8210-1 (Series)). See PGI 242.302(a)(56).

(67) Also support program offices and buying activities in precontractual efforts leading to a solicitation or award.

(S-70) Serve as the single point of contact for all Single Process Initiative (SPI) Management Council activities. The ACO shall negotiate and execute facilitywide class modifications and agreements for SPI processes, when authorized by the affected components.

(S-71) DCMA has responsibility for reviewing earned value management system (EVMS) plans and for verifying initial and continuing contractor compliance with DoD EVMS criteria. The contracting officer shall not retain this function.
