
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 242 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 242.3 - Contract Administration Office Functions
###### 242.302 Contract administration functions.
####### 9

(S-72) Ensure implementation of the Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) by the contractor and maintain surveillance over contractor compliance with SPOT business rules available at the Web site provided at PGI 207.105(b)(20)(C)() for contracts incorporating the clause at 252.225-7040, Contractor Personnel Supporting U.S. Armed Forces Deployed Outside the United States. See PGI 242.302(a)(S-72) for guidance on assessing contractor's implementation of SPOT.

(S-73) Maintain surveillance over contractor compliance with trafficking in persons requirements for all DoD contracts for services incorporating the clause at FAR 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons, and, when necessary, its Alternate I, as identified in the clause prescription at FAR 22.1705. (See PGI 222.1703.)

(S-74) Approve or disapprove contractor business systems, as identified in the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems.

(S-75) See PGI 242.302(a)(S-75) for guidelines for monitoring contractor costs.

(S-76) Review and audit contractor identification of contractor-approved suppliers for the acquisition of electronic parts, as identified in the clause at 252.246-7008, Sources of Electronic Parts.

(b)(S-70) Issue, negotiate, and execute orders under basic ordering agreements for overhaul, maintenance, and repair.

(S-71)(A) Except for classified contracts, negotiate or settle questioned direct costs in an incurred cost audit. The procuring contracting officer may delegate this authority to the contract administration office (CAO) only upon prior coordination and agreement with the CAO. Upon such delegation, the procuring contracting officer shall provide the CAO access within 30 days to all supporting documentation in their possession related to the questioned direct costs in an incurred cost audit.

(B) After settlement of the questioned direct costs, the CAO shall provide the procuring contracting office the results of the settlement. The procuring contracting office shall make any adjustments resulting from the settlement on affected contracts and report such adjustments to the CAO.
