
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 242 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 242.70 - Contractor Business Systems
###### 242.7000 Contractor business system deficiencies.
####### Determination to withhold payments.

(b)If the contracting officer makes a final determination to disapprove a contractor's business system in accordance with the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems, the contracting officer shall-

(1) In accordance with agency procedures, identify one or more covered contracts containing the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems, from which payments will be withheld. When identifying the covered contracts from which to withhold payments, the contracting officer shall ensure that the total amount of payment withholding under 252.242-7005, does not exceed 10 percent of progress payments, performance-based payments, and interim payments under cost-reimbursement, labor-hour, and time-and-materials contracts billed under each of the identified covered contracts. Similarly, the contracting officer shall ensure that the total amount of payment withholding under the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems, for each business system does not exceed five percent of progress payments, performance-based payments, and interim payments under cost-reimbursement, labor-hour, and time-and-materials contracts billed under each of the identified covered contracts. The contracting officer has the sole discretion to identify the covered contracts from which to withhold payments.

(2) Promptly notify the contractor, in writing, of the contracting officer's determination to implement payment withholding in accordance with the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems. The notice of payment withholding shall be included in the contracting officer's written final determination for the contractor business system and shall inform the contractor that-

(i) Payments shall be withheld from the contract or contracts identified in the written determination in accordance with the clause at 252.242-7005, Contractor Business Systems, until the contracting officer determines that there are no remaining significant deficiencies; and

(ii) The contracting officer reserves the right to take other actions within the terms and conditions of the contract.

(3) Provide all contracting officers administering the selected contracts from which payments will be withheld, a copy of the determination. The contracting officer shall also provide a copy of the determination to the auditor; payment office; affected contracting officers at the buying activities; and cognizant contracting officers in contract administration activities.
