
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 242 - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION AND AUDIT SERVICES
##### Subpart 242.73 - Contractor Insurance/Pension Review
###### 242.7302 Requirements.

(a)(1) An in-depth CIPR as described at DFARS 242.7301(a)(1) shall be conducted only when-

(i) A contractor has $50 million of qualifying sales to the Government during the contractor's preceding fiscal year; and

(ii) The ACO, with advice from DCMA insurance/pension specialists and DCAA auditors, determines a CIPR is needed based on a risk assessment of the contractor's past experience and current vulnerability.

(2) Qualifying sales are sales for which certified cost or pricing data were required under 10 U.S.C. 3702, as implemented in FAR 15.403, or that are contracts priced on other than a firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment basis. Sales include prime contracts, subcontracts, and modifications to such contracts and subcontracts.

(b) A special CIPR that concentrates on specific areas of a contractor's insurance programs, pension plans, or other deferred compensation plans shall be performed for a contractor (including, but not limited to, a contractor meeting the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section) when any of the following circumstances exists, but only if the circumstance(s) may result in a material impact on Government contract costs:

(1) Information or data reveals a deficiency in the contractor's insurance/pension program.

(2) The contractor proposes or implements changes in its insurance, pension, or deferred compensation plans.

(3) The contractor is involved in a merger, acquisition, or divestiture.

(4) The Government needs to follow up on contractor implementation of prior CIPR recommendations.

(c) The DCAA auditor shall use relevant findings and recommendations of previously performed CIPRs in determining the scope of any audits of insurance and pension costs.

(d) When a Government organization believes that a review of the contractor's insurance/pension program should be performed, that organization should provide a recommendation for a review to the ACO. If the ACO concurs, the review should be performed as part of an ACO-initiated special CIPR or as part of a CIPR already scheduled for the near future.
