
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 2 - Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense
### Subchapter G - Contract Management
#### PART 247 - TRANSPORTATION
##### Subpart 247.5 - Ocean Transportation by U.S.-Flag Vessels
###### 247.572 Policy.

(a) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2631(a), DoD contractors shall transport supplies, as defined in the clause at 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea, exclusively on U.S.-flag vessels unless-

(1) Those vessels are not available;

(2) The proposed charges to the Government are higher than charges to private persons for the transportation of like goods; or

(3) The proposed freight charges are excessive or unreasonable.

(b) Contracts must provide for the use of Government-owned vessels when security classifications prohibit the use of other than Government-owned vessels.

(c) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2631(b)-

(1) Any vessel used under a time charter contract for the transportation of supplies under this section shall have any reflagging or repair work, as defined in the clause at 252.247-7025, Reflagging or Repair Work, performed in the United States or its outlying areas, if the reflagging or repair work is performed-

(i) On a vessel for which the contractor submitted an offer in response to the solicitation for the contract; and

(ii) Prior to the acceptance of the vessel by the Government.

(2) The Secretary of Defense may waive this requirement if the Secretary determines that such waiver is critical to the national security of the United States.

(d) In accordance with Section 1017 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364)-

(1) When obtaining carriage requiring a covered vessel, the contracting officer must consider the extent to which offerors have had overhaul, repair, and maintenance work for covered vessels performed in shipyards located in the United States or Guam; and

(2) DoD must submit an annual report to the congressional defense committees, addressing the information provided by offerors with regard to overhaul, repair, and maintenance for covered vessels performed in the United States or Guam.

(e) In accordance with section 3504 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Pub. L. 110-417), DoD may not award, renew or extend, or exercise an option under a charter of, or contract for carriage of cargo by, a U.S.-flag vessel documented under chapter 121 of title 46 U.S.C., unless the contract contains the clause at 252.247-7027.
