
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 6 - COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 6.3 - Other Than Full and Open Competition
###### 6.302-2 Unusual and compelling urgency.
####### Period of Performance.

(d)(1) The total period of performance of a contract awarded or modified using this authority-

(i) May not exceed the time necessary-

(A) To meet the unusual and compelling requirements of the work to be performed under the contract; and

(B) For the agency to enter into another contract for the required goods and services through the use of competitive procedures; and

(ii) May not exceed one year, including all options, unless the head of the agency determines that exceptional circumstances apply. This determination must be documented in the contract file.

(2)(i) Any subsequent modification using this authority, which will extend the period of performance beyond one year under this same authority, requires a separate determination. This determination is only required if the cumulative period of performance using this authority exceeds one year. This requirement does not apply to the exercise of options previously addressed in the determination required at paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The determination shall be approved at the same level as the level to which the agency head authority in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section is delegated.

(3) The requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section shall apply to any contract in an amount greater than the simplified acquisition threshold.

(4) The determination of exceptional circumstances is in addition to the approval of the justification in 6.304.

(5) The determination may be made after contract award when making the determination prior to award would unreasonably delay the acquisition.
