
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 6 - COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 6.3 - Other Than Full and Open Competition
###### 6.302-5 Authorized or required by statute.
####### Limitations.

(c)(1) This authority shall not be used when a provision of law requires an agency to award a new contract to a specified non-Federal Government entity unless the provision of law specifically-

(i) Identifies the entity involved;

(ii) Refers to 10 U.S.C. 3201(e)for armed services acquisitions or 41 U.S.C. 3105 for civilian agency acquisitions; and

(iii) States that award to that entity shall be made in contravention of the merit-based selection procedures in 10 U.S.C. 3201(e) or 41 U.S.C. 3105, as appropriate. However, this limitation does not apply-

(A) When the work provided for in the contract is a continuation of the work performed by the specified entity under a preceding contract; or

(B) To any contract requiring the National Academy of Sciences to investigate, examine, or experiment upon any subject of science or art of significance to an executive agency and to report on those matters to the Congress or any agency of the Federal Government.

(2) Contracts awarded using this authority shall be supported by the written justifications and approvals described in 6.303 and 6.304, except for-

(i) Contracts awarded under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(2) of this section;

(ii) Contracts awarded under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section when the statute expressly requires that the procurement be made from a specified source. (Justification and approval requirements apply when the statute authorizes, but does not require, that the procurement be made from a specified source); or

(iii) Contracts less than or equal to $25 million awarded under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(3) The authority in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section may be used only for purchases of brand name commercial products for resale through commissaries or other similar facilities. Ordinarily, these purchases will involve articles desired or preferred by customers of the selling activities (but see 6.301(d)).
