
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 6 - COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 6.3 - Other Than Full and Open Competition
###### 6.304 Approval of the justification.

(a) Except for paragraph (b) of this section, the justification for other than full and open competition shall be approved in writing-

(1) For a proposed contract not exceeding $750,000, the contracting officer's certification required by 6.303-2(b)(12) will serve as approval unless a higher approving level is established in agency procedures.

(2) For a proposed contract over $750,000 but not exceeding $15 million, by the advocate for competition for the procuring activity designated pursuant to 6.501 or an official described in paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section. This authority is not delegable.

(3) For a proposed contract over $15 million, but not exceeding $75 million, or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, not exceeding $100 million, by the head of the procuring activity, or a designee who-

(i) If a member of the armed forces, is a general or flag officer; or

(ii) If a civilian, is serving in a position in a grade above GS-15 under the General Schedule (or in a comparable or higher position under another schedule).

(4) For a proposed contract over $75 million or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, over $100 million, by the senior procurement executive of the agency designated pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 1702(c) in accordance with agency procedures. This authority is not delegable except in the case of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, acting as the senior procurement executive for the Department of Defense.

(b) Any justification for a contract awarded under the authority of 6.302-7, regardless of dollar amount, shall be considered approved when the determination required by 6.302-7(c)(1) is made.

(c) A class justification for other than full and open competition shall be approved in writing in accordance with agency procedures. The approval level shall be determined by the estimated total value of the class.

(d) The estimated dollar value of all options shall be included in determining the approval level of a justification.
