
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 3 - Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs
#### PART 326 - OTHER SOCIOECONOMIC PROGRAMS
##### Subpart 326.6 - Acquisitions Under the Buy Indian Act
###### 326.603-3 Deviations.

(a) There are certain instances where the application of the Buy Indian Act to an acquisition may not be appropriate. In these instances, the CO must detail the reasons in writing or via email and make a deviation determination.

(b) Some acquisitions by their very nature would make such a written determination unnecessary. For example, any order or call placed against an indefinite delivery vehicle that already has an approved deviation from the requirements of the Buy Indian Act.

(c) Deviation determinations shall be required for all other acquisitions where the Buy Indian Act is applicable and must be approved as follows:

(d) Deviations may be authorized prior to issuing the solicitation when the CO makes the following determinations and takes the following actions:

(1) The CO determines after market research that there is no reasonable expectation of obtaining offers that will be competitive in terms of market price, quality and delivery from two or more responsible ISBEEs or IEEs.

(2) The deviation determination is authorized by the official listed at HHSAR 326.603-3(c) for the applicable contract action.

(e) If a deviation determination has been approved, the CO must follow the FAR and HHSAR unless specified otherwise.

(f) Acquisitions made under an authorized deviation from the requirements of the Buy Indian Act must be made in conformance with the order of precedence required by FAR Part 8.002.
