
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 3 - Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 339 - ACQUISITION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart 339.2 - Electronic and Information Technology
###### 339.203 Applicability.
####### http://www.hhs.gov/web/508

(2) At a minimum, solicitations for supplies and services shall require the submission of a Section 508 Product Assessment Template (Seefor the template). Solicitations for services shall include any other pertinent information that the contracting officer deems necessary to evaluate the offeror's ability to meet the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards.

(3) The HHS Operating Division or Staff Division (OPDIV or STAFFDIV) Section 508 Official or designee is responsible for providing technical assistance in development of Section 508 evaluation factors.

(4) Before conducting negotiations or making an award, the contracting officer shall provide a summary of the Source Selection Evaluation Team's (SSET) assessment of offeror responses to the solicitation's Section 508 evaluation factor. This summary shall be submitted for review by the Section 508 Official or designee. The Section 508 Official or designee shall indicate approval or disapproval of the SSET assessment. The contracting officer shall coordinate the resolution of any issues raised by the Section 508 Official or designee with the chair of the SSET or requiring activity representative, as appropriate. The acquisition process shall not proceed until the Section 508 Official or designee approves the SSET assessment. The contracting officer shall include the assessment in the official contract file. See 339.204-1 regarding processing exception determination requests.

(b) When acquiring commercial items, if no commercially available supplies or services meet all of the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, OPDIVs or STAFFDIVs shall, under the direction and approval of the Section 508 Official or designee, acquire the supplies and services that best meet the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. Process exception determinations for EIT supplies and services not meeting applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in accordance with 339.204-1.
