
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 7 - ACQUISITION PLANNING
##### Subpart 7.1 - Acquisition Plans
###### 7.107-2 Consolidation.
####### Benefits.

(d)(1) Benefits that are quantifiable in dollar amounts are substantial if individually, in combination, or in the aggregate the anticipated financial benefits are equivalent to-

(i) Ten percent of the estimated contract or order value (including options) if the value is $94 million or less; or

(ii) Five percent of the estimated contract or order value (including options) or $9.4 million, whichever is greater, if the value exceeds $94 million.

(2) Benefits that are not quantifiable in dollar amounts shall be specifically identified and otherwise quantified to the extent feasible.

(3) Reduction of administrative or personnel costs alone is not sufficient justification for consolidation unless the cost savings are expected to be at least 10 percent of the estimated contract or order value (including options) of the consolidated requirements, as determined by the SPE or CAO (15 U.S.C. 657q(c)(2)(B)).

(e)(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the approving authority identified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section may determine that consolidation is necessary and justified when-

(i) The expected benefits do not meet the thresholds for a substantial benefit at paragraph (d)(1) of this section but are critical to the agency's mission success; and

(ii) The procurement strategy provides for maximum practicable participation by small business.

(2) The approving authority is-

(i) For the Department of Defense, the SPE; or

(ii) For the civilian agencies, the Deputy Secretary or equivalent.

(f) If a determination is made that consolidation is necessary and justified, the contracting officer shall include it in the acquisition strategy documentation and provide it to the Small Business Administration (SBA) upon request.
