
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 4 - Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter I - Food Assistance Programs
#### PART 470 - COMMODITY ACQUISITIONS
##### 470.202 Acquisition of commodities for United States Agency for International Development (USAID) programs.
###### Lowest landed cost and delivery considerations.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (e)(2) of this section, with respect to the acquisition of agricultural commodities for delivery to foreign destinations and related freight to transport such commodities under Title II of Public Law 480, contracts will be entered into in a manner that will result in the lowest landed cost of such commodity delivery to the intended destination. This lowest landed cost determination shall be calculated on the basis of rates and service for that portion of the commodities being purchased that is determined is necessary and practicable to meet 46 U.S.C. 55314(c)(3) and cargo preference requirements and on an overall (foreign and U.S. flag) basis for the remaining portion of the commodities being procured and the additional factors set forth in this section. Accordingly, the solicitations issued with respect to a commodity procurement or a freight procurement will specify that in the event an offer submitted by a party is the lowest offered price, the contracting officer reserves the right to reject such offer if the acceptance of another offer for the commodity or freight, when combined with other offers for commodities or freight, results in a lower landed cost to USAID.

(2) The Department may contact any port prior to award to determine the port's cargo handling capabilities, including the adequacy of the port to receive, accumulate, handle, store, and protect the cargo. Factors which will be considered in this determination will include, but not be limited to, the adequacy of building structures, proper ventilation, freedom from insects and rodents, cleanliness, and overall good housekeeping and warehousing practices. The Department may consider the use of another coastal range or port if a situation exists at a port that may adversely affect the ability of the Department to have the commodity delivered in a safe and/or timely manner. Such situations include:

(i) A port is congested;

(ii) Port facilities are overloaded;

(iii) A vessel would not be able to dock and load cargo without delay;

(iv) Labor disputes or lack of labor may prohibit the loading of the cargo onboard a vessel in a timely manner; or

(v) Other similar situation that may adversely affect the ability of the Department to have the commodity delivered in a timely manner.
