
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 504 - ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
##### Subpart 504.11 - System for Award Management
###### 504.1103 Procedures.

In addition to the requirements found in FAR 4.1103, prior to awarding a contractual instrument the contracting officer must-

(a) Verify that the prospective contractor's legal business name, Doing-Business-As (DBA) name (if any), physical street address, and unique entity identifier, as found in the System for Award Management (SAM), match the information that will be included in the contract, order, or agreement resulting from the vendor's quote or proposal. Correct any mismatches by having the vendor amend the information in the SAM and/or the quote or proposal.

(b) Ensure that the contractor's address code exists in Pegasys and that it is SAM enabled with the contractor's unique entity identifier number. This can be done by searching Pegasys records using the contractor's Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). If no code exists, request that a new address code be established by the Finance Center for SAM compliance.

(c) Ensure that the contractor's identifying information is correctly placed on the contractual instrument, using special care to ensure that the legal name and "remit to" name match exactly. (Note: Lockbox names or numbers should not be used to replace the contractor's name in the remittance block on the contractual instrument.)

(d) Unless one of the exceptions to registration in SAM applies (see FAR 4.1102(a)), the contracting officer must not award a contract to a prospective contractor who is not registered in SAM. If no exceptions are applicable, and the needs of the requiring activity allows for a delay in award, see FAR 4.1103(b)(1).
