
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning
#### PART 511 - DESCRIBING AGENCY NEEDS
##### Subpart 511.6 - Priorities and Allocations
###### 511.602 General.

(a) The purpose of the DPAS is to assure the timely availability of industrial resources to meet current national defense, energy, and civil emergency preparedness program requirements and to provide an operating system to support rapid industrial response in a national emergency. The primary statutory authority for the DPAS is Title I of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, with additional authority from the Selective Service Act of 1948 and the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Executive Orders 12919 and 12742 delegate to the DOC authority to administer the DPAS. Within the DOC, the Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security (SIES) is assigned responsibility for DPAS implementation, administration, and compliance.

(b) The DPAS is published in the Code of Federal Regulations at 15 CFR part 700. This regulation provides an overview, a detailed explanation of operations and procedures, and other implementing guidance, including information on special priorities assistance and compliance.

(c) Orders placed under DPAS are "rated orders." Rated orders must receive preferential treatment only as necessary to meet delivery requirements. Rated orders are identified by a rating symbol of either "DX" or "DO" followed by a program identification symbol. All "DO" rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over unrated orders. All "DX" rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over "DO" rated orders and unrated orders. A program identification symbol indicates which approved program is supported by the rated order.

(d) The authority delegated to GSA shall not be used to support the procurement of any product or service that-

(1) Are commonly available in commercial markets for general consumption;

(2) Do not require major modification when purchased for approved program use;

(3) Are readily available in sufficient quantity so as to cause no delay in meeting approved program requirements; or

(4) Are to be used primarily for administrative purposes (including Federal Supply Classification (FSC) classes, groups, or items), such as for personnel or financial management. The Commissioner, FAS, shall issue additional guidance, as may be necessary, to ensure effective implementation of its delegated DPAS authority.
