
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types
#### PART 514 - SEALED BIDDING
##### Subpart 514.2 - Solicitation of Bids
###### 514.270-7 Guidelines for using the price list method.
####### Special considerations for repair and alteration contracts.

(i)In the solicitation:

(1) List the estimated quantities for work to be performed during both normal working hours and outside of normal working hours.

(2) State the percent of work anticipated to be performed during normal working hours.

(3) List the unit prices for work to be performed during both normal working hours and outside of normal working hours.

(4) Define "normal" in terms of hours and days of the week.

(5) Advise bidders of the previous year's total expenditures or portions of that total attributable to the listed items.

(6) If providing quantity estimates, state that the estimates are for information only and do not constitute guarantees or commitments to order items under the contract.

(7) Solicit two percentage factors for the line item unit prices listed: one for the unit prices for work performed during normal working hours and the second for the unit prices for work performed outside of normal working hours.

(8) When the solicitation further groups unit prices by trade or business category, multiple percentages may be required.

(9) For the evaluated bid price, add together the following percentages:

(i) The percentage of work performed during normal work hours multiplied by the total estimate adjusted by the bidder's percentage factor for that portion of the work, plus

(ii) The percentage of work performed during other than normal working hours multiplied by the total estimate adjusted by the bidder's percentage factor for that portion of the work.

(10) Consider other price-related factors identified in the solicitation. Make award to the responsible and responsive bidder submitting the lowest overall evaluated bid price for the aggregate group. This represents the most advantageous bid.
