
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 538 - FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 538.2 - Establishing and Administering Federal Supply Schedules
###### 538.273 FSS solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) As prescribed in this paragraph, insert the following provisions in the beginning of FSS solicitations:

(1) 552.238-70, Cover Page for Worldwide Federal Supply Schedules. Use in all FSS solicitations. Use Alternate I for single award Federal Supply Schedules.

(2) 552.238-71, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside. Use in FSS solicitations containing special item numbers (SINs) that are set aside for small business.

(3) 552.238-72, Information Collection Requirements. Use in all FSS solicitations.

(b) As prescribed in this paragraph, insert the following clause and provision as an addendum to 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services:

(1) 552.238-73, Identification of Electronic Office Equipment Providing Accessibility for Individuals with Disabilities. Use only in FSS solicitations for electronic office equipment.

(2) 552.238-74, Introduction of New Supplies/Services (INSS). Use only in FSS solicitations allowing the introduction of new supplies/services. Note: GSA Form 1649, Notification of Federal Supply Schedule Improvement, may be required if revising a Special Item Number (SIN).

(c) As prescribed in this paragraph, insert the following provisions as an addendum to 52.212-2, Evaluation-Commercial Products and Commercial Services:

(1) 552.238-75, Evaluation-Commercial Products and Commercial Services (Federal Supply Schedules). Use in FSS standing solicitations.

(2) 552.238-76, Use of Non-Government Employees to Review Offers. Use only in FSS solicitations when non-government employees may be utilized to review solicitation responses.

(d) As prescribed in this paragraph, insert the following clauses as an addendum to Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services:

(1) 552.238-77, Submission and Distribution of Authorized Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(2) 552.238-78, Identification of Products that have Environmental Attributes. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts that contemplate products with environmental attributes.

(3) 552.238-79, Cancellation. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(4) 552.238-80, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting. Use Alternate I for Federal Supply Schedules with Transactional Data Reporting requirements. Clause 552.238-81 Alternate I should also be used when vendors agree to include clause 552.238-80 Alternate I in the contract.

(5) 552.238-81, Price Reductions. Use Alternate I for Federal Supply Schedules with Transactional Data Reporting requirements. This alternate clause is used when vendors agree to include clause 552.238-80 Alternate I in the contract.

(6) 552.238-82, Modifications (Federal Supply Schedules). Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(i) Use Alternate I for Federal Supply Schedules that only accept eMod.

(ii) Use Alternate II for Federal Supply Schedules with Transactional Data Reporting requirements. This alternate clause is used when vendors agree to include clause 552.238-80 Alternate I in the contract.

(7) 552.238-83, Examination of Records by GSA (Federal Supply Schedules). Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts. With the Senior Procurement's Executive approval, the contracting officer may modify this clause to provide for post-award access to and the right to examine records to verify that the pre-award/modification pricing, sales or other data related to the supplies or services offered under the contract which formed the basis for the award/modification was accurate, current, and complete. The following procedures apply:

(i) Such a modification of the clause must provide for the right of access to expire 2 years after award or modification.

(ii) Before modifying the clause, the contracting officer must make a determination that absent such access there is a likelihood of significant harm to the Government and submit it to the Senior Procurement Executive for approval.

(iii) The determinations under paragraph (9)(ii) must be made on a schedule-by-schedule basis.

(8) 552.238-84, Discounts for Prompt Payment. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(9) 552.238-85, Contractor's Billing Responsibilities. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(10) 552.238-86, Delivery Schedule. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies.

(11) 552.238-87, Delivery Prices. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.
