
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting
#### PART 538 - FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart 538.2 - Establishing and Administering Federal Supply Schedules
###### 538.273 FSS solicitation provisions and contract clauses.
####### Advantage

(12) 552.238-88, GSA!&#xAE;. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts except the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedules.

(13) 552.238-89, Deliveries to the U.S. Postal Service. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for mailable articles when delivery to a U.S. Postal Service (USPS) facility is contemplated.

(14) 552.238-90, Characteristics of Electric Current. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts when the supply of equipment which uses electrical current is contemplated.

(15) 552.238-91, Marking and Documentation Requirements for Shipping. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies when the need for outlining the minimum information and documentation required for shipping is contemplated.

(16) 552.238-92, Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) Program. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies when a VMI Program is contemplated.

(17) 552.238-93, Order Acknowledgement. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies.

(18) 552.238-94, Accelerated Delivery Requirements. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies.

(19) 552.238-95, Separate Charge for Performance Oriented Packaging (POP). Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for products defined as hazardous under Federal Standard No. 313.

(20) 552.238-96, Separate Charge for Delivery within Consignee's Premises. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies when allowing offerors to propose separate charges for deliveries within the consignee's premises.

(21) 552.238-97, Parts and Service. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(22) 552.238-98, Clauses for Overseas Coverage. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts when overseas acquisition is contemplated. The following clauses and provisions shall also be inserted in full text, when applicable.

(i) 52.214-34 Submission of Offers in the English Language.

(ii) 52.214-35 Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency.

(iii) 552.238-90 Characteristics of Electric Current.

(iv) 552.238-91 Marking and Documentation Requirements Per Shipment.

(v) 552.238-97 Parts and Service.

(vi) 552.238-99 Delivery Prices Overseas.

(vii) 552.238-100 Transshipments.

(viii) 552.238-101 Foreign Taxes and Duties.

(ix) 52.247-34 FOB Destination.

(x) 52.247-38 FOB Inland Carrier, Country of Exportation.

(xi) 52.247-39 FOB Inland Point, Country of Importation.

(23) 552.238-99, Delivery Prices Overseas. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts when overseas acquisition is contemplated.

(24) 552.238-100, Transshipments. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts when overseas acquisition is contemplated.

(25) 552.238-101, Foreign Taxes and Duties. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts when overseas acquisition is contemplated.

(26) 552.238-102, English Language and U.S. Dollar Requirements. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(27) 552.238-103, Electronic Commerce. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts except the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedules.

(28) 552.238-104, Dissemination of Information by Contractor. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(29) 552.238-105, Deliveries Beyond the Contractual Period-Placing of Orders. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies.

(30) 552.238-106, Interpretation of Contract Requirements. Use in all FSS solicitations and contracts.

(31) 552.238-107, Export Traffic Release (Supplies). Use in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies, except vehicles.

(32) 552.238-108, Spare Parts Kit. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for products requiring spare part kits. This information is to be specified at the order level.

(33) 552.238-109, Authentication Supplies and Services. Use in Federal Supply Schedule 70 solicitations only, and only contracts awarded Special Item Numbers (SINs) associated with the Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12).

(34) 552.238-110, Commercial Satellite Communication (COMSATCOM) Services. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for COMSATCOM services.

(35) 552.238-111, Environmental Protection Agency Registration Requirement. Use only in FSS solicitations and contracts for supplies when products may require registration with the Environmental Protection Agency.

(36) 552.238-116, Option to Extend the Term of the FSS Contract. Use in FSS solicitations and contracts when appropriate.

(e) Insert the following fill-in information within the blank of paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.216-22, Indefinite Quantity: "the completion of customer order, including options, 60 months following the expiration of the FSS contract ordering period".
