
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulation
### Subchapter B - Acquisition Planning
#### PART 8 - REQUIRED SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES
##### Subpart 8.4 - Federal Supply Schedules
###### 8.402 General.
####### schedules.infocenter@gsa.gov,http://www.gsa.gov/cmls,CMLS@gsa.gov

(b) GSA schedule contracts require all schedule contractors to publish an "Authorized Federal Supply Schedule Pricelist" (pricelist). The pricelist contains all supplies and services offered by a schedule contractor. In addition, each pricelist contains the pricing and the terms and conditions pertaining to each Special Item Number that is on schedule. The schedule contractor is required to provide one copy of its pricelist to any ordering activity upon request. Also, a copy of the pricelist may be obtained from the Federal Supply Service by submitting a written e-mail request toor by telephone at 1-800-488-3111. This subpart, together with the pricelists, contain necessary information for placing delivery or task orders with schedule contractors. In addition, the GSA schedule contracting office issues Federal Supply Schedules publications that contain a general overview of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) program and address pertinent topics. Ordering activities may request copies of schedules publications by contacting the Centralized Mailing List Service through the Internet at, submitting written e-mail requests to; or by completing GSA Form 457, FSS Publications Mailing List Application, and mailing it to the GSA Centralized Mailing List Service (7SM), P.O. Box 6477, Fort Worth, TX 76115. Copies of GSA Form 457 may also be obtained from the above-referenced points of contact.
