
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter I - Special Contracting Programs
#### PART 570 - ACQUIRING LEASEHOLD INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart 570.1 - General
###### 570.106 Advertising, publicizing, and notifications to Congress.
####### https://www.sam.gov"

(a) If a proposed acquisition is not exempt under FAR 5.202 or GSAR 570.106(e), and is for a leasehold interest in real property estimated to exceed 10,000 square feet, then the contracting officer must publicize the proposed acquisition in the System for Award Management Contract Opportunities at.

(b) For leasehold acquisitions where the solicitation requires the construction of a new building on a preselected site, the contracting officer, in accordance with the timeframes established in FAR 5.203, must publicize the proposed acquisition in the GPE regardless of size or value.

(c) For leasehold acquisitions not subject to a square foot measurement (e.g., antennas, piers, parking), contracting officers must publicize the proposed acquisition in the GPE when the contract action is expected to exceed $25,000, unless an exception under FAR 5.202 applies.

(d) Other than as identified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the contracting officer need not publicize the proposed acquisition of a leasehold interest in real property, including expansion requests within the scope of a lease (see 570.403), lease extensions under the conditions defined in 570.405, and building alterations within the scope of a lease (see 570.5). However, the contracting officer may publicize proposed lease acquisitions of any dollar value or square footage in the GPE or local newspapers if, in the opinion of the contracting officer, doing so is necessary to promote competition.

(e) The contracting officer may issue a consolidated advertisement for multiple leasing actions.

(f) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, where publicizing of the proposed acquisition is required, the notice shall be published in the GPE not less than three calendar days prior to issuance of a solicitation.

(g) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section and as set forth in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, the contracting officer shall provide offerors not less than 20 calendar days between solicitation issuance and the date established for receipt of initial offers.

(1) For a proposed acquisition using simplified lease acquisition procedures (see 570.2), consider the individual acquisition and establish a reasonable response time.

(2) In cases of unusual and compelling urgency (FAR 6.303-2), provide as much time as reasonably possible under the circumstances and document the contract file.

(h) If a Member of Congress has specifically requested notification of award, the contracting officer must provide award notifications in accordance with 505.303.
