
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter I - Special Contracting Programs
#### PART 570 - ACQUIRING LEASEHOLD INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart 570.3 - Acquisition Procedures for Leasehold Interests in Real Property Over the Simplified Lease Acquisition Threshold
###### 570.305 Two-phase design-build selection procedures.

(a) These procedures apply to acquisitions of leasehold interests if the contracting officer uses the two-phase design-build selection procedures authorized by 570.105-2. Follow FAR 36.3.

(b) The SFO must include all the following information:

(1) The scope of work.

(2) The evaluation factors and subfactors to be used in evaluating phase-one proposals and their relative importance.

(3) The maximum number of offerors to be selected to submit competitive proposals in phase-two.

(4) The evaluation factors, including cost or price, and subfactors to be used in evaluating phase-two proposals and selecting the successful offeror, and their relative importance.

(c) The following procedures apply to phase-one evaluation factors:

(1) Phase one factors include:

(i) Specialized experience and technical competence.

(ii) Capability to perform.

(iii) Past performance of the offeror's team (including architect-engineer and construction members of the team).

(iv) The planned participation of small disadvantaged business concerns in performance of the contract.

(v) Other appropriate factors, such as site or location.

(2) The contracting officer shall not require offerors to submit detailed design information or cost or price information in phase one. The contracting officer shall not use cost related or price related evaluation factors.

(d) The contracting officer shall set the maximum number of offerors to be selected for phase-two to not exceed five unless the contracting officer determines that a number greater than five is both:

(1) In the government's interest.

(2) Consistent with the purpose and objectives of the two-phase selection process.

(e) In phase-two, require detailed technical and price proposals. Evaluate the proposals using the procedures in 570.306.
