
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter I - Special Contracting Programs
#### PART 570 - ACQUIRING LEASEHOLD INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart 570.4 - Special Aspects of Contracting for Continued Space Requirements
###### 570.403 Expansion requests.

(a) If the expansion space is in the general scope of the lease, the contracting officer may acquire the space through a modification without further justification under FAR 6.3.

(b) If the expansion space needed is outside the general scope of the lease, the contracting officer must determine whether it is more prudent to provide the expansion space by supplemental agreement to the existing lease or to meet the expansion requirement and existing tenancy to the requirement by competitive means.

(1) Conduct a market survey to determine the availability of suitable alternative locations.

(2) If you identify alternate locations that can satisfy the total requirement, perform a cost-benefit analysis to determine whether it is in the Government's best interest to relocate. Consider, as appropriate.

(i) The cost of the alternate space compared to the cost of expanding at the existing location.

(ii) The cost of moving.

(iii) The cost of duplicating existing improvements.

(iv) The cost of the unexpired portion of the firm lease term. If a termination is possible, use the actual cost of such an action.

(v) the cost of disruption to the agency's operation.

(c) If the contracting officer determines not to use competitive procedures and the expansion space is outside the general scope of the lease:

(1) If the estimated value of the acquisition does not exceed the simplified lease acquisition threshold, document the file as required by 570.203-2(b).

(2) If the estimated value of the acquisition exceeds the simplified lease acquisition threshold, prepare a justification for approval under FAR 6.3 and 506.3.
