
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 5 - General Services Administration
### Subchapter I - Special Contracting Programs
#### PART 570 - ACQUIRING LEASEHOLD INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart 570.7 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses
###### 570.703 GSAR contract clauses.

(a) Insert clauses substantially the same as the following in solicitations and contracts for leasehold interests in real property that exceed the simplified lease acquisition threshold, unless the contracting officer determines that a clause is not appropriate. The contracting officer shall document the file with the basis for omitting or substantially changing a clause. A deviation is not required under section 570.704 to determine that a clause in this section is not appropriate. The following clauses may be inserted in solicitations and contracts for leasehold interests in real property at or below the simplified lease acquisition threshold.

552.270-4 Definitions. Insert this clause if including the clause at 552.270-28.

(b) Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts for leasehold interests in real property:

552.270-30 Price Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity.

552.270-31 Prompt Payment.

552.270-32 Covenant Against Contingent Fees.

(c) Insert the representation clause at 552.270-33, Foreign Ownership and Financing Representation for High-Security Leased Space, in novations, solicitations and contracts for leased space that:

(1) Will be occupied by Federal employees for nonmilitary activities; and

(2) Has a facility security level of III, IV, or V.

(d) Insert the clause at 552.270-34 Access Limitations for High-Security Leased Space, in novations, solicitations and contracts for leased space that:

(1) Will be occupied by Federal employees for nonmilitary activities; and

(2) Has a facility security level of III, IV, or V.
