
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 601 - DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart 601.6 - Career Development, Contracting Authority, and Responsibilities
###### 601.601-70 Delegations of authority.
####### Overseas posts.,provided,

(1)Each overseas post shall be regarded as a contracting activity to enter into and administer contracts for the expenditure of funds involved in the acquisition of supplies, equipment, publications, and services. The Principal Officer, the Management Officer, or the Supervisory General Services Officer are designated as HCAs;that he/she has a contracting officer's warrant issued by the Procurement Executive. The Procurement Executive (or authorized A/OPE staff) may delegate to a contracting officer, on a case-by-case basis, the authority to award a contract or modification which exceeds the contracting officer's warrant level.

(i) No authority is delegated to enter into cost-reimbursement, fixed-price incentive, or fixed-price redeterminable contracts. Design/build solicitations and contracts may only be entered into with the written approval of A/OPE and OBO. Proposed construction contracts exceeding $500,000 and any related architect-engineer contracts must have prior A/OPE approval.

(ii) When expressly authorized by a U.S. Government agency which does not have a contracting officer at the post, the officers named in paragraph (a)(1) introductory text of this section may enter into contracts for that agency. Use of this authority is subject to the statutory authority of that agency and any special contract terms or other requirements necessary for compliance with any conditions or limitations applicable to the funds of that agency. The agency's authorization shall cite the statute(s) and state any special contract terms or other requirements with which the acquisition so authorized must comply. In view of the contracting officer's responsibility for the legal, technical, and administrative sufficiency of contracts, questions regarding the propriety of contracting actions that the post is required to take pursuant to this authority may be referred to the Department for resolution with the headquarters of the agency concerned.
