
# Title 48 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System
## Chapter 6 - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 601 - DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION REGULATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart 601.6 - Career Development, Contracting Authority, and Responsibilities
###### 601.602-3 Ratification of unauthorized commitments.
####### Policy.

(b)(1) The Government generally is not bound by unauthorized commitments. Unauthorized commitments violate the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, other Federal laws, the FAR, the DOSAR, and proper acquisition practice. Therefore, such unauthorized commitments are serious violations that could result in disciplinary action against the transgressor, e.g., withdrawal of a contracting officer's warrant or a Contracting Officer's Representative delegation or collection action.

(2)(i) Unauthorized commitments not exceeding $1,000. The head of the contracting activity is delegated the authority to serve as the ratifying official for unauthorized commitments not exceeding $1,000, including unauthorized commitments from other agencies where a DOS employee serves as the contracting officer for that action. The head of the contracting activity may refer any actions not exceeding $1,000 to the DOS Procurement Executive for ratification if he or she so chooses.

(ii) Unauthorized commitments exceeding $1,000. All DOS unauthorized commitments in excess of $1,000 shall be submitted to the DOS Procurement Executive for ratification. Unauthorized commitments in excess of $1,000 from other agencies may be referred to the other agency's representative at post for resolution in accordance with that agency's ratification process.
