
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 316 - TEMPORARY AND TERM EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart G - Retention of Incumbents of Positions Brought Into the Competitive Service
###### § 316.702 Excepted positions brought into the competitive service.

(a) When the Office, or an agency acting under an agreement with the Office, finds that an excepted position has been brought into the competitive service by statute, Executive order, or the revocation of an exception under Civil Service Rule VI (§ 6.6 of this chapter), or is otherwise made subject to competitive examination, the agency may retain the incumbent of the position.

(b)(1) When an agency retains an employee under paragraph (a) of this section who was serving in an excepted position under an indefinite appointment or an appointment without time limit, the agency gives the employee a status quo appointment and may convert that employee's appointment to career or career-conditional under § 315.701 of this chapter.

(2) When the agency decides not to effect conversion under § 315.701 of this chapter, or the employee fails to qualify for conversion, the agency, in its discretion, may retain the employee as a status quo employee.

(c) An employee who was serving under an excepted appointment limited to 1 year or less may be retained as a temporary employee under paragraph (a) of this section until the scheduled expiration date of the employee's excepted appointment. Extension of the employee's temporary appointment beyond that date will be subject to the provisions of § 316.402.

(d) An employee who was serving under an excepted appointment with a definite time limit longer than 1 year may be retained under a term appointment. The term appointment is subject to all conditions and time limits applicable to term appointments. Service under excepted appointment does not count against the maximum time limit for term appointment in the competitive service.
