
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2424 - NEGOTIABILITY PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart C - Filing and Responding to a Petition for Review; Conferences
###### ยง 2424.25 Response of the exclusive representative; purpose; time limits; content; severance; service.
####### Content.,www.flra.gov.

(c)You must file your response on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your response electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site atThat Web site also provides copies of response forms. With the exception of a request for severance under paragraph (d) of this section, you must limit your response to the matters that the agency raised in its statement of position. You must date your response, unless you file it electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file your response, you must ensure that it includes the following:

(1) Any disagreement with the agency's bargaining obligation or negotiability claims. You must: State the arguments and authorities supporting your opposition to any agency argument; include specific citation to any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority on which you rely; and provide a copy of any such material that the Authority may not easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file your response electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system). You are not required to repeat arguments that you made in your petition for review. If not included in the petition for review, then you must state the arguments and authorities supporting any assertion that the proposal or provision does not affect a management right under 5 U.S.C. 7106(a), and any assertion that an exception to management rights applies, including:

(i) Whether and why the proposal or provision concerns a matter negotiable at the election of the agency under 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1);

(ii) Whether and why the proposal or provision constitutes a negotiable procedure as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(2);

(iii) Whether and why the proposal or provision constitutes an appropriate arrangement as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(3); and

(iv) Whether and why the proposal or provision enforces an "applicable law," within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 7106(a)(2).

(2) Any allegation that agency rules or regulations relied on in the agency's statement of position violate applicable law, rule, regulation or appropriate authority outside the agency; that the rules or regulations were not issued by the agency or by any primary national subdivision of the agency, or otherwise are not applicable to bar negotiations under 5 U.S.C. 7117(a)(3); or that no compelling need exists for the rules or regulations to bar negotiations.
