
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2429 - MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 2429.24 Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.
####### www.flra.gov,,not

(a) Except for documents that are filed electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site atanyone who files a document with the Authority (as distinguished from the General Counsel, a Regional Director, or an Administrative Law Judge) must file that document with the Chief, Case Intake and Publication, Federal Labor Relations Authority, Docket Room, Suite 200, 1400 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20424-0001 (telephone: (202) 218-7740) between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Eastern Time ("E.T."), Monday through Friday (except federal holidays). If you file documents by hand delivery, then you must present those documents in the Docket Room no later than 5 p.m. E.T., if you want the Authority to accept those documents for filing on that day. If you file documents electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, then you may file those documents on any calendar day-including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays-and the Authority will consider those documents filed on a particular day if you file them no later than midnight E.T. on that day. Note, however, that although you may eFile documents on Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal documents, you are not required to do so. Also note that you mayfile documents with the Authority by electronic mail ("email").

(b) A document submitted to the General Counsel pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the General Counsel at the address set forth in the appendix.

(c) A document submitted to a Regional Director pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate regional office, as set forth in the appendix.

(d) Unless electronically filed pursuant to paragraph (f)(15) of this section, a document filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges pursuant to this subchapter shall be submitted to the address for the Chief Administrative Law Judge, as set forth in the appendix.

(e) Except as discussed in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, if you are filing documents with the FLRA, then you must file them in person, by commercial delivery, by first-class mail, or by certified mail.
