
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2429 - MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 2429.27 Service; statement of service.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 2423.10(c) and (d), any party filing a document as provided in this subchapter is responsible for serving a copy upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, upon parties not so represented, and upon any interested person who has been granted permission by the Authority pursuant to ยง 2429.9 to present written and/or oral argument as amicus curiae. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.

(b) If you are serving a document under paragraph (a) of this section, then you must use one of the following methods of service:

(1) Certified mail;

(2) First-class mail;

(3) Commercial delivery;

(4) In-person delivery;

(5) Facsimile ("fax") service, but only for the types of documents listed in ยง 2429.24(g) and only where fax equipment is available; or

(6) Electronic mail ("email"), but only when the receiving party has agreed to be served by email.

(c) If you serve a document under this section, then you must file, with the appropriate FLRA office, a statement indicating that the party has served that document (a "statement of service"). If you are filing documents electronically using the FLRA's eFiling system, then you must certify, in the FLRA's eFiling system and at the time of filing, that you have served copies of the filing and any supporting documents on the appropriate individual(s) specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Regardless of how you file a statement of service with the FLRA, you must ensure that your statement of service includes the names of the parties and persons that you served, their addresses, the date on which you served them, the nature of the document(s) that you served, and the manner in which you served the parties or persons that you served. You must also sign and date the statement of service, unless you are using the FLRA's eFiling system.
