
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2430 - AWARDS OF ATTORNEY FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES
##### ยง 2430.9 Answer to application; reply to answer; comments by other parties; extensions of time to file documents.

(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, the General Counsel may file an answer to the application. The filing of a motion to dismiss the application shall stay the time for filing an answer to a date thirty (30) days after issuance of any order denying the motion.

(b) If the General Counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate toward a settlement. The filing of such a statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days.

(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested, and identify the facts relied on in support of the General Counsel's position. If the answer is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, supporting affidavits shall be provided or a request made for further proceedings under ยง 2430.11.

(d) Within fifteen (15) days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, supporting affidavits shall be provided or a request made for further proceedings under ยง 2430.11.

(e) Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and the General Counsel may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served, or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in the proceeding on the application unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that such participation is required in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.

(f) Motions for extensions of time to file documents permitted by this section or ยง 2430.11 shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge not less than five (5) days before the due date of the document.
