
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2430 - AWARDS OF ATTORNEY FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES
##### § 2430.12 Administrative Law Judge's decision; contents; service; transfer of case to the Authority; contents of record in case.

(a) Upon conclusion of proceedings under §§ 2430.6 to 2430.11, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision. The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's status as a prevailing party and eligibility, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the agency's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. The Administrative Law Judge shall cause the decision to be served promptly on all parties to the proceeding. Thereafter, the Administrative Law Judge shall transmit the case to the Authority, including the judge's decision and the record. Service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision and of the order transferring the case to the Board shall be complete upon mailing.

(b) The record in a proceeding on an application for an award of fees and expenses shall consist of the application for an award of fees and expenses and any amendments or attachments thereto, the net worth exhibit, the answer and any amendments or attachments thereto, any reply to the answer, any comments by other parties, motions, rulings, orders, stipulations, written submissions, the stenographic transcript of oral argument, the stenographic transcript of the hearing, exhibits and depositions, together with the Administrative Law Judge's decision, and the exceptions and briefs as provided in § 2430.13, and the record of the unfair labor practice proceeding upon which the application is based.
