
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Conversion to the Senior Executive Service
###### ยง 317.301 Conversion coverage.
####### When applicable.

(a)These conversion provisions apply in the following circumstances.

(1) The implementation of the Senior Executive Service effective on July 13, 1979, and the initial conversions thereto.

(2) The implementation of the Senior Executive Service in an agency following the revocation of that agency's Presidential exclusion under 5 U.S.C. 3132(e). The Office of Personnel Management shall determine the date on which conversions under this authority shall become effective. Generally, this will be no later than six months following the effective date of the revocation of the Presidential exclusion.

(3) The implementation of the Senior Executive Service in a formerly excluded agency following statutory action extending coverage under 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(1) to that agency. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Office of Personnel Management shall determine the date on which conversions under this authority shall become effective. Generally, this will be no later than six months following the effective date of the statutory action extending coverage under 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(1).

(4) The implementation of the SES in a formerly excluded agency when OPM determines that the agency is an "Executive agency" under 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(1).

(5) The exercise of a reemployment right by an individual who at the time of his/her former agency's implementation of the Senior Executive Service was under a reemployment agreement to a position in that agency which meets the grade level and functional criteria for inclusion under the Senior Executive Service. The effective date of a conversion under this authority is prescribed by ยง 317.302(d)(5).
