
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter D - Federal Service Impasses Panel
#### PART 2473 - SUBPOENAS
##### Appendix B to 5 CFR Chapter XIV - Memorandum Describing the Authority and Assigned Responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
###### Liaison with other governmental agencies.

II.The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Authority, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison and arrangements with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations with reference to the financial and other reports required to be filed with the Assistant Secretary pursuant to section 7120(c) of the Statute and the availability to the Authority and the General Counsel of the contents thereof. The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Authority, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service with respect to functions which may be performed by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.

III. Personnel. Under 5 U.S.C. 7105(d), the Authority is authorized to appoint Regional Directors. In order better to ensure the effective exercise of the duties and responsibilities of the General Counsel described above, the General Counsel is delegated authority to recommend the appointment, transfer, demotion or discharge of any Regional Director. However, such actions may be taken only with the approval of the Authority. In the event of a vacant Regional Director position, the General Counsel may, without the approval of the Authority, detail personnel as acting Regional Director for a total period of up to 120 days commencing on the day the position becomes vacant. If the position remains vacant for more than 120 days, a detail must be approved by the Authority. Other details of personnel to act as Regional Director during periods when there is an incumbent in the position shall be accomplished by the General Counsel without the approval of the Authority. The General Counsel shall have authority to direct and supervise the Regional Directors. Under 5 U.S.C. 7104(f)(3), the General Counsel shall have direct authority over, and responsibility for all employees in the Office of the General Counsel and all personnel of the General Counsel in the field offices of the Authority. This includes full and final authority subject to applicable laws and rules, regulations and procedures of the Office of Personnel Management and the Authority over the selection, retention, transfer, promotion, demotion, discipline, discharge and in all other respects of such personnel except the detail in the event of a vacancy for a period in excess of 120 days, appointment, transfer, demotion or discharge of any Regional Director. Further, the establishment, transfer, or elimination of any Regional Office or non-Regional Office duty location may be accomplished only with the approval of the Authority. The Authority will provide such administrative support functions, including personnel management, financial management and procurement functions, through the Office of Administration of the Authority as are required by the General Counsel to carry out the General Counsel's statutory and prescribed functions.

IV. To the extent that the above-described duties, powers and authority rest by statute with the Authority, the foregoing statement constitutes a prescription and assignment of such duties, powers and authority, whether or not so specified.
