
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XVI - Office of Government Ethics
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 2604 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT RULES AND SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR THE PRODUCTION OF PUBLIC FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS
##### Subpart E - Schedule of Fees
###### § 2604.503 Limitations on charging fees.
####### The primary interest in disclosure: Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(ii)A fee waiver or reduction is warranted only where the public interest can fairly be regarded as greater in magnitude than the requester's commercial interest in disclosure. OGE will ordinarily presume that, where a news media requester has satisfied the public interest standard, the public interest will be served primarily by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers and others who compile and market Government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.

(3) Where only a portion of the requested record satisfies the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees under this paragraph (c), a waiver or reduction will be granted only as to that portion.

(4) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees must accompany the request for disclosure of records, and should include:

(i) A clear statement of the requester's interest in the documents;

(ii) The proposed use of the documents and whether the requester will derive income or other benefit from such use;

(iii) A statement of how the public will benefit from release of the requested documents; and

(iv) If specialized use of the documents is contemplated, a statement of the requester's qualifications that are relevant to the specialized use.

(5) A requester may appeal the denial of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees in accordance with the provisions of § 2604.304.

(d) If OGE does not comply with one of the time limits under § 2604.305, it will not assess search fees (or in the case of a requester described under § 2604.502(c), duplication fees), except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.

(1) If OGE has determined that unusual circumstances apply, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and OGE provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), a failure to comply with the time limit is excused for an additional 10 days.

(2) If OGE has determined that unusual circumstances apply, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, OGE may charge search fees (or in the case of requesters described under § 2604.502(c), duplication fees) if OGE has provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) and OGE has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).

(3) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
