
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XVI - Office of Government Ethics
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 2606 - PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart B - Access to Records and Accounting of Disclosures
###### ยง 2606.201 Requests for access.
####### Content of request.,http://www.usoge.gov,,http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/PrivacyAct.shtml

(c)(1) A request should contain a specific reference to the OGE system of records from which access to the records is sought. Notices of OGE systems of records subject to the Privacy Act are published in theand copies of the notices are available on OGE's Web site ator upon request from OGE's Office of General Counsel and Legal Policy. A biennial compilation of such notices also is made available online and published by the Office of Federal Register at the GPO Access Web site () in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) of the Act.

(2) If the written inquiry does not refer to a specific system of records, it should include other information that will assist in the identification of the records for which access is being requested. Such information may include, for example, the individual's full name (including her maiden name, if pertinent), dates of employment, social security number (if any records in the system include this identifier), current or last place and date of Federal employment. If the request for access follows a prior request to determine if an individual is the subject of a record, the same identifying information need not be included in the request for access if a reference is made to that prior correspondence, or a copy of the response to that request is attached.

(3) The request should state whether the requester wants a copy of the record, or wants to examine the record in person.
