
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Conversion to the Senior Executive Service
###### ยง 317.305 Conversion of excepted appointees.
####### Senior Executive Service appointment.

(b)An employee covered by this section shall be subject to one of the following actions.

(1) If the employee's position is designated a "general" position, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment. The employee may be assigned only to a "general" position.

(2) If the employee's position is designated a "career reserved" position, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment and assign the employee to a "general" position. The employee cannot remain in a "career reserved" position.

(3) If the employee subject to ยง 317.302(a) or ยง 317.302(d) has reinstatement eligibility to a position in the competitive service, or, as determined by the Office of Personnel Management, had substantial career-oriented service under a career-type appointment as defined in ยง 317.304(a)(2), the employee may request conversion to a career appointment. Such request must be made on or before the end of the notice period.

(i) If the request is approved by the Office, the agency will convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service career appointment. The employee may be assigned to a "general" or a "career reserved" position. The name of the individual and basis for approving the request must be published in the

(ii) If the employee's request for conversion to career is not approved by the Office, or if the employee elects not to make such a request, the agency will convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment. The employee may be assigned only to a "general" position.

(4) In lieu of action under paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, the agency may separate the employee from the civil service.
