
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Conversion to the Senior Executive Service
###### ยง 317.306 Conversion of employees under time limited appointments.
####### Senior Executive Service appointment.

(b)An employee covered by this section shall be subject to one of the following actions.

(1) If the position in which the employee is serving under a limited executive assignment or similar type of time limited appointment will terminate within three years from the date of the proposed conversion action, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service limited term appointment.

(2) If the position in which the employee is serving under a limited executive assignment or similar type of time limited appointment will not terminate within three years from the date of the proposed conversion action, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment and assign the employee to a "general" position.

(3) If the employee under a limited executive assignment has reinstatement eligibility to a position in the competitive service, or, as determined by the Office of Personnel Management, had substantial career-oriented service under a career-type appointment as defined in ยง 317.304(a)(2), and if immediately prior to the limited executive assignment and without a break in service the employee served under a career appointment or career-type appointment in a position now being designated a Senior Executive Service position then the employee may request conversion to a career appointment. Such request must be made on or before the end of the notice period.

(i) If the employee requests conversion to career, the agency will convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service career appointment. The employee may be assigned to a "general" or a "career reserved" position. The name of the individual and basis for approving the request must be published in the

(ii) If the employee does not request conversion to career, the agency will convert the employee as provided for in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.

(4) In lieu of action under paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, the agency may separate the employee from the civil service.
