
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XVI - Office of Government Ethics
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 2606 - PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart C - Amendment of Records
###### ยง 2606.304 Response to a request for review of an initial refusal to amend; disagreement statements.

(a) The OGE Director or agency reviewing official should make a final determination in writing not later than 30 days from the date the appeal was received. The 30-day period may be extended for good cause. Notice of the extension and the reasons therefor will be sent to the data subject within the 30-day period.

(b) If the OGE Director or agency reviewing official determines that the record(s) should be amended in accordance with the data subject's request, the OGE Director or agency reviewing official will take the necessary steps to advise the data subject, and to direct the appropriate system manager:

(1) To amend the record(s), and

(2) To notify previous recipients of the record(s) for which there is an accounting of disclosure that the record(s) have been amended.

(c) If the appeal decision does not grant in full the request for amendment, the decision letter will notify the data subject that he may:

(1) Obtain judicial review of the decision in accordance with the terms of the Privacy Act at 5 U.S.C. 552a(g); and

(2) File a statement setting forth his reasons for disagreeing with the decision.

(d)(1) A data subject's disagreement statement must be concise. The appropriate system manager has the authority to determine the "conciseness" of the statement, taking into account the scope of the disagreement and the complexity of the issues.

(2) In any disclosure of information about which an individual has filed a statement of disagreement, the appropriate system manager will clearly note any disputed portion(s) of the record(s) and will provide a copy of the statement to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record or records has been disclosed and for whom an accounting of disclosure has been maintained. A concise statement of the reasons for not making the amendments requested may also be provided.
