
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart E - Career Appointments
###### ยง 317.501 Recruitment and selection for initial SES career appointment be achieved from the brightest and most diverse pool possible.
####### Merit staffing requirements.

(c)As a minimum, agencies must-

(1) Provide that competition be fair and open, that all candidates compete and be rated and ranked on the same basis, and that selection be based solely on qualifications and not on political or other non-job-related factors. If a candidate is a current SES career appointee or an SES reinstatement eligible, an agency may consider the candidate either competitively or noncompetitively.

(2) Provide that the ERB consider the executive and technical qualifications of each candidate, other than those found ineligible because they do not meet the requirements of the vacancy announcement. Preliminary qualifications screening, rating, and ranking of candidates may be delegated by the ERB.

(3) Provide that the rating procedures sufficiently differentiate among eligible candidates on the basis of the knowledges, skills, abilities, and other job-related factors in the qualifications standard for the position so as to enable the relative ranking of the candidates. For this purpose, eligible candidates may be grouped into broad categories, such as highly qualified, well qualified, and qualified. Numerical rating and ranking are not required.

(4) Provide that the record be adequately documented to show the basis of qualifications, rating, and ranking determinations.

(5) Provide that the ERB make written recommendations to the appointing authority on the eligible candidates and identify the best qualified candidates. Rating sheets may be used to satisfy the written recommendation requirement for individual candidates, but the ERB must certify in writing the list of candidates to the appointing authority.

(6) Provide that the appointing authority select from among the candidates identified as best qualified by the ERB and certify the candidate's executive and technical qualifications.

(7) Provide that the appointing authority or the ERB certify in writing that appropriate merit staffing procedures were followed.
