
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart E - Career Appointments
###### ยง 317.503 Probationary period.
####### i.e.,

(4) Time following transfer to an SES position in another agency is credited,the individual does not have to start a new probationary period.

(e) Removal of a career appointee during the probationary period is covered by subpart D of part 359 of this chapter.

(f) A career appointee who resigns or is removed from the SES before completion of the probationary period may not receive another SES career appointment unless selected under SES merit staffing procedures. The individual, however, need not be recertified by a QRB unless the individual was removed for performance or disciplinary reasons.

(g) An individual who separated from the SES during the probationary period and who has been out of the SES more than 30 calendar days must serve a new 1-year probationary period upon reappointment and may not credit previous time in a probationary period. In the following situations, however, there is an exception and the individual is only required to complete the remainder of the previously served probationary period.

(1) The individual left the SES without a break in service for a Presidential appointment and is exercising reinstatement rights under 5 U.S.C. 3593(b).

(2) The individual left the SES without a break in service for other civilian employment that provides a statutory or regulatory reemployment right to the SES when no other break in service occurred.

(3) The break in SES service was the result of military duty or compensable injury, and the time credited under paragraph (c)(3) of this section was not sufficient to complete the probationary period.
