
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XVI - Office of Government Ethics
### Subchapter B - Government Ethics
#### PART 2634 - EXECUTIVE BRANCH FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE, QUALIFIED TRUSTS, AND CERTIFICATES OF DIVESTITURE
##### Subpart C - Contents of Public Reports
###### ยง 2634.312 Trusts, estates, and investment funds.
####### Qualified trusts and excepted trusts.

(b)(1) A filer should not report information about the holdings of or income from holdings of, any qualified blind trust (as defined in ยง 2634.402) or any qualified diversified trust (as defined in ยง 2634.402). For a qualified blind trust, a public financial disclosure report must disclose the category of the aggregate amount of the trust's income attributable to the beneficial interest of the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent child in the trust. For a qualified diversified trust, a public financial disclosure report must disclose the category of the aggregate amount of income with respect to such a trust which is actually received by the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent child, or applied for the benefit of any of them.

(2) In the case of an excepted trust, a filer should indicate the general nature of its holdings, to the extent known, but will not otherwise need to report information about the trust's holdings or income from holdings. The category of the aggregate amount of income from an excepted trust which is received by the filer, the filer's spouse, or dependent child must be reported on public financial disclosure reports. For purposes of this part, the term "excepted trust" means a trust:

(i) Which was not created directly by the filer, spouse, or dependent child; and

(ii) The holdings or sources of income of which the filer, spouse, or dependent child have no specific knowledge through a report, disclosure, or constructive receipt, whether intended or inadvertent.
