
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 317 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
##### Subpart G - SES Career Appointment by Reinstatement
###### ยง 317.703 Guaranteed reinstatement: Presidential appointees.
####### Directing reinstatement.

(c)(1) To the extent practicable, OPM will direct reinstatement within 45 days of the date of receipt by OPM of the application for reinstatement or the date of separation from the Presidential appointment, whichever is later.

(2) OPM will use the following order of precedence in directing reinstatement of a former Presidential appointee:

(i) The agency in which the individual last served as an SES career appointee before accepting the Presidential appointment;

(ii) The successor agency to the one in which the individual last served as an SES career appointee;

(iii) The agency or agencies in which the individual served as a Presidential appointee; or

(iv) Any other agency in the Executive branch with positions under the SES.

(3) The agency being directed to take the reinstatement action is responsible for assigning the individual to a position for which he or she meets the qualifications requirements.

(4) When directing the reinstatement of a Presidential appointee, OPM may, as appropriate, allocate an additional SES space authority to the agency.

(5) When a Presidential appointee tenders his or her resignation, voluntarily or upon request, the agency in which the Presidential appointment was held, upon approval by OPM, may place the appointee as an interim measure on an SES limited term or limited emergency appointment as appropriate, pending reinstatement, to preclude a break in service after the Presidential appointment has terminated.

(6) To preserve reinstatement rights under this section, an individual who has been serving in a presidential appointment, if selected by the President for another appointment in the same or a new agency, must be reinstated to an appropriate position as an SES career appointee before the effective date of the new Presidential appointment, unless service as a Presidential appointee would be continuous.
