
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XVI - Office of Government Ethics
### Subchapter B - Government Ethics
#### PART 2641 - POST-EMPLOYMENT CONFLICT OF INTEREST RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 2641.101 Purpose.
####### See

18 U.S.C. 207 prohibits certain acts by former employees (including current employees who formerly served in "senior" or "very senior" employee positions) which involve, or may appear to involve, the unfair use of prior Government employment. None of the restrictions of section 207 prohibits any former employee, regardless of Government rank or position, from accepting employment with any particular private or public employer. Rather, section 207 prohibits a former employee from providing certain services to or on behalf of non-Federal employers or other persons, whether or not done for compensation. These restrictions are personal to the employee and are not imputed to others. (, however, the note following ยง 2641.103 concerning 18 U.S.C. 2.)

(a) This part 2641 explains the scope and content of 18 U.S.C. 207 as it applies to former employees of the executive branch or of certain independent agencies (including current employees who formerly served in "senior" or "very senior" employee positions). Although certain restrictions in section 207 apply to former employees of the District of Columbia, Members and elected officials of the Congress and certain legislative staff, and employees of independent agencies in the legislative and judicial branches, this part is not intended to provide guidance to those individuals.

(b) Part 2641 does not address post-employment restrictions that may be contained in laws or authorities other than 18 U.S.C. 207. These restrictions include those in 18 U.S.C. 203 and 41 U.S.C. 423(d).
