
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XXXIV - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 4401 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
#### ยง 4401.102 Prohibited and restricted financial interests and transactions.
##### Waivers.

(h)(1) Members may request from the Commission a waiver of the prohibitions or limitations that would otherwise apply to a securities holding or transaction on the grounds that application of the rule would cause an undue hardship. A member requests a waiver by submitting a confidential written application to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel's Ethics Office. The DAEO will review the request and provide to the Commission a recommendation for resolution of the waiver request. In developing a recommendation, the DAEO may consult, on a confidential basis, other Commission personnel as the DAEO in his or her discretion considers necessary.

(2) Employees may request from the DAEO a waiver of the prohibitions or limitations that would otherwise apply to a securities holding or transaction on the grounds that application of the rule would cause an undue hardship. An employee requests a waiver by submitting a confidential written application to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel's Ethics Office in the manner prescribed by the DAEO. In considering a waiver request, the DAEO, or his or her designee, may consult with the employee's supervisors and other Commission personnel as the DAEO in his or her discretion considers necessary.

(3) The Commission or the DAEO, as applicable, will provide written notice of its determination of the waiver request to the requesting member or employee.

(4) The Commission or the DAEO, as applicable, may condition the grant of a waiver under this provision upon the agreement to certain undertakings (such as execution of a written statement of disqualification) to avoid the appearance of misuse of position or loss of impartiality, and to ensure confidence in the impartiality and objectivity of the Commission. The Commission or DAEO, as applicable, shall note the existence of conditions on the waiver and describe them in reasonable detail in the text of the waiver-request determination.

(5) The grant of a waiver requested pursuant to this section must reflect the judgment that the waiver:

(i) Is necessary to avoid an undue hardship; and, under the particular circumstances, application of the prohibition or restriction is not necessary to avoid the appearance of misuse of position or loss of impartiality, or otherwise necessary to ensure confidence in the impartiality and objectivity of the Commission;

(ii) Is consistent with 18 U.S.C. 208 (Acts affecting a personal financial interest), 5 CFR part 2635 (Standards of ethical conduct for employees of the executive branch), and 5 CFR part 2640 (Interpretation, exemptions and waiver guidance concerning 18 U.S.C. 208); and

(iii) Is not otherwise prohibited by law.

(6) The determination of the Commission with respect to a member's request for a waiver is final and binding on the member.

(7) The determination of the DAEO with respect to an employee's request for a waiver may be appealed to the Commission, in accordance with the requirements of Rules 430 and 431 of the Commission's Rule of Practice, 17 CFR 201.430, 201.431. The determination of the DAEO or, if appealed, the Commission, is final and binding on the employee.

(8) Notwithstanding the grant of a waiver, a member or employee remains subject to the disqualification requirements of 5 CFR 2635.402 (Disqualifying financial interests) and 5 CFR 2635.502 (Personal and business relationships) with respect to transactions or holdings subject to the waiver.
