
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XXXIV - Securities and Exchange Commission
### PART 4401 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
#### ยง 4401.103 Outside employment and activities.
##### Prohibitions and restrictions on members.

(2)(i) Members of the Commission may engage in outside employment only to the extent permitted by Section 4(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78d(a). This provision does not preclude members from engaging in permitted securities transactions.

(ii) Notwithstanding the absence of a statutory prohibition, a member may not engage in any outside employment or activity, if such outside employment or activity would materially impair the member's ability to perform properly the member's duties. Such outside employment or activity includes such fiduciary relationships such as serving as a trustee, executor or corporate director.

(d) Employees are required to submit proposed publications or prepared speeches relating to the Commission, or the statutes or rules it administers, to the Commission's Office of the General Counsel's Ethics Office for review, pursuant to the Commission's Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission, 17 CFR 200.735-4 (Outside Employment and Activities). Any such publication or speech must include the disclaimer prescribed in 17 CFR 200.735-4(c). Employees who wish to engage in teaching, writing or speaking for compensation should review the provisions of 5 CFR 2635.807 (Teaching, Speaking, and Writing).
