
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XLI - Commodity Futures Trading Commission
### PART 5101 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
#### ยง 5101.103 Outside employment and activities.
##### Prior approval for outside employment.

(c)(1) Before engaging in any outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee of the Commission, other than a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from his or her division or office head and the Executive Director, who may seek the concurrence of the General Counsel.

(2) In addition to the approval under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an employee, including a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from the Commission to appear in court or on a brief in a representative capacity.

(3) Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part.

(4) The approval required by paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section shall be requested in writing in advance of engaging in outside employment. The request shall be submitted to the employee's division or office head, through the employee's immediate supervisor, and shall set forth all pertinent facts regarding the anticipated employment, including the name of the employer, the nature of the work to be performed, its estimated duration and the amount of compensation to be received. If approved by the division or office head, the request shall be forwarded by the division or office head to the Executive Director. In granting or denying approval, the Executive Director may seek the concurrence of the General Counsel. If approved by the Executive Director, a request for permission to appear in court or on a brief in a representational capacity shall be forwarded to the Commission for final decision.

(5) For purposes of this section, "employment" means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.
