
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XLII - Department of Labor
### PART 5201 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
#### ยง 5201.105 Additional rules for Mine Safety and Health Administration employees.
##### Waiver.

(c)(1) The Assistant Secretary of labor for Mine Safety and Health or the Assistant Secretary's designee may grant an employee a written waiver from the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a) of this section, based on a determination that the waiver is not inconsistent with 5 CFR part 2635 or otherwise prohibited by law and that, under the particular circumstances, application of the prohibition is not necessary to avoid the appearance of misuse of position or loss of impartiality, or to ensure confidence in the impartiality and objectivity with which Mine Safety and Health Administration programs are administered.

(2) The Assistant Secretary or the designee shall grant a waiver from the prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section regarding spouses and minor children unless the Assistant Secretary or the designee determines that the covered relationship or interest is likely to be inconsistent with 5 CFR part 2635 or is otherwise prohibited by law.

(3) A waiver under this section may be accompanied by appropriate conditions, such as requiring execution of a written statement of disqualification. A waiver may be withdrawn if it is later determined that such waiver does not meet the requirements for the granting of waivers under this paragraph. Notwithstanding the grant of any waiver, a covered employee remains subject to the disqualification requirements of 5 CFR 2635.402 and 2635.502.

(4) Factors which may be considered in connection with the granting or denial of waivers include the nature and extent of the financial interest, and the official position and duties of the employee.
