
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXII - Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
### PART 7201 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
#### ยง 7201.103 Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) Before engaging in any outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission must obtain written approval from his or her Deputy Ethics Counselor or designee.

(b) In addition to approval under paragraph (a) of this section, an employee must obtain prior written approval from the Designated Agency Ethics Official or designee to engage in:

(1) Compensated outside employment;

(2) The uncompensated practice of law; or

(3) Uncompensated outside employment that involves representation or the rendering of advice or analysis regarding any equal employment law, or serving as an officer or director of an organization whose activities are devoted substantially to equal employment opportunity matters.

(c) Approval will not be granted if the outside employment is expected to involve conduct inconsistent with or prohibited by a statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part.

(d) For purposes of this section, "employment" means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service or civic organization unless:

(1) The employee's participation involves the provision of professional services or advice;

(2) The employee will receive compensation other than reimbursement of expenses; or

(3) The organization's activities are devoted substantially to matters relating to equal employment law and the employee will serve as officer or director of the organization.
