
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXVIII - Commission on Civil Rights
### PART 7801 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
#### ยง 7801.102 Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) An employee, other than a special Government employee, of the Commission who wishes to engage in outside employment shall first obtain the approval, in writing, of the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO). Volunteer professional services, however, may be "generally approved" in advance as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) Standard for approval. Approval shall be granted by the DAEO only upon a determination that the prospective outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.

(c) Upon a significant change in the nature or scope of the outside employment or the employee's official position, the employee must submit a revised request for approval.

(d) For purposes of this section, "outside employment" means any form of non-Federal employment, business relationship or activity involving the provision of personal services by the employee, whether or not for compensation. It includes, but is not limited to, personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes writing done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.

(e)(1) The Commission may designate volunteer activities as "generally approved," or preapproved by the DAEO, in order to facilitate the participation of the Commission's professional and nonprofessional staff (whether involving legal or non-legal services). Non-representational pro bono legal services designated as "generally approved" require employees to notify the DAEO, the General Counsel (GC), and the employee's supervisor (if different from the GC) prior to the employee's participation; however, no additional prior approval is required. Representational pro bono legal services designated as "generally approved" still require prior case-specific written approval by the DAEO pursuant to this section, and notification of the GC and the employee's supervisor (if different from the GC). Non-legal professional volunteer activities designated as "generally approved" require employees to notify their supervisor and the DAEO. However, no additional prior written approval is required.

(2) To provide professional services or advice to a program or activity not designated as "generally approved," the employee must notify his or her supervisor and submit a written request and justification in advance to the DAEO. In addition, in order to provide pro bono legal services the employee must notify the GC (if the GC is not the employee's supervisor). If providing representational pro bono legal services, the employee must also obtain written case-specific prior approval from the DAEO pursuant to this section. All requests for approval submitted to the DAEO must reflect that the required notifications were made by the employee. All DAEO approvals must be in writing.
