
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXIX - Tennessee Valley Authority
### PART 7901 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
#### ยง 7901.102 Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) Before engaging in outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee, other than a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from the supervising TVA vice president or designee. The written request shall be submitted through the employee's supervisor or human resource office and shall, at a minimum, identify the employer or other person for whom the services are to be provided, as well as the duties, hours of work, and compensation involved in the proposed outside employment.

(b) Approval under paragraph (a) of this section shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.

(c) Vice presidents or other officers of TVA may, after consultation with the Designated Agency Ethics Official, exempt specified classes of employees from this section based upon a determination that the official duties of employees in the class are such that their outside employment activities are not likely to raise issues of compliance with 5 CFR part 2635.

(d) For purposes of this section, employment means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to, personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement for actual expenses.
