
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXIV - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
### PART 8401 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW COMMISSION
#### ยง 8401.102 Prohibited financial interests.
##### 2

() The employee is disqualified from participating in any decision, examination, audit, or other particular matter having a direct and predictable effect on such company or other person, in which the employee holds a direct or indirect interest.

(B) The securities result from a stock split, stock dividend or the exercise of preemptive rights arising out of securities permitted by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section. This paragraph does not permit the holding of stocks purchased through voluntary reinvestment of cash dividends.

(ii) For purposes of this section, the term "securities" includes all interests in debt or equity instruments. The term includes, without limitation, secured and unsecured bonds, debentures, notes, securitized assets and commercial paper, as well as all types of preferred and common stock. The term encompasses both current and contingent ownership interests, including any beneficial or legal interest derived from a trust. It extends to any right to acquire or dispose of any long or short position in such securities and includes, without limitation, interests convertible into such securities, as well as options, rights, warrants, puts, calls, and straddles with respect thereto.
