
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXVII - Office of Management and Budget
### PART 8701 - SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
#### ยง 8701.102 Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) Before engaging in outside employment with or without compensation, an employee of the Office of Management and Budget, other than a special Government employee, must obtain the written approval of his or her division or office head, the General Counsel, and the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO). Requests for approval shall be forwarded through normal supervisory channels to the division or office head, who shall forward the request to the General Counsel, to be forwarded with their successive approvals to the DAEO. The request for approval shall include, at a minimum, the following:

(1) A statement of the name of the person, group, or other organization for whom the work is to be performed; the type of work to be performed; and the proposed hours of work and approximate dates of employment; and

(2) A statement that the outside employment will not depend on information obtained as a result of the employee's official Government position and that no official duty time or Government property, resources, or facilities not available to the general public will be used in connection with the outside employment.

(b) Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.

(c) For purposes of this section, "employment" means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to, personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.
