
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9301 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 9301.13 Rules for determining if an individual is the subject of a record.
###### sigar.pentagon.gen-coun.mbx.privacy@mail.mil.

(a) Individuals desiring to know if a specific system of records maintained by SIGAR contains a record pertaining to them should address their inquiries to the Privacy Officer, Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, 2530 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202. As there may be delays in mail delivery, it is advisable to send the request via facsimile to (703) 601-3804 or by email toThe written inquiry should contain a specific reference to the system of records maintained by the SIGAR listed in the SIGAR Notice of Systems of Records, or it should describe the type of record in sufficient detail reasonably to identify the system of records. Notice of SIGAR systems of records subject to the Privacy Act will be published in theposted on the SIGAR public facing Web site, and copies of the notices will be available upon request to the Privacy Officer when so published. A compilation of such notices will also be made and published by the Office of the Federal Register, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).

(b) At a minimum, the request should contain sufficient identifying information to allow SIGAR to determine if there is a record pertaining to the individual making the request in a particular system of records. In instances when the requester's identification is insufficient to ensure disclosure to the individual to whom the information pertains in view of the sensitivity of the information, SIGAR reserves the right to solicit from the person requesting access to a record additional identifying information.

(c) Ordinarily the person requesting will be informed whether the named system of records contains a record pertaining to such person within 10 days of such a request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal Federal holidays). Such a response will also contain or reference the procedures which must be followed by the individual making the request in order to gain access to the record.

(d) Whenever a response cannot be made within the 10 days, the Privacy Officer will inform the person making the request the reasons for the delay and the date on which a response may be anticipated.
