
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9301 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 9301.14 Requests for access.
###### Procedures,Content of the request.

(b)-(1)The request for access to a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Privacy Officer at the address cited above, and shall name the system of records or contain a concise description of such system of records. The request should state that the request is pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. In the absence of such a statement, if the request is for a record pertaining to the person requesting access which is maintained by SIGAR in a system of records, the request will be considered under both the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Freedom of Information Act, depending on which would allow greater access to the records requested. The request should contain necessary information to verify the identity of the person requesting access (see paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section). In addition, such person should include any other information which may assist in the rapid identification of the record for which access is being requested (e.g., maiden name, dates of employment, etc.) as well as any other identifying information contained in and required by the SIGAR Notice of Systems of Records.

(i) If the request for access follows a prior request under ยง 9301.1, the same identifying information need not be included in the request for access if a reference is made to that prior correspondence or a copy of the SIGAR response to that request is attached. If the individual specifically desires a copy of the record, the request should so specify under ยง 9301.4.

(ii) [Reserved]
