
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9301 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 9301.17 Requests to amend records.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1)(i) The request to amend a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Privacy Officer. Included in the request shall be the name of the system and a brief description of the record proposed for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record is the result of the individual's having gained access to the record in accordance with the provisions concerning access to records as set forth in this paragraph, copies of previous correspondence between the individual and SIGAR will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.

(ii) When the individual's identity has been previously verified pursuant to ยง 9301.14(b)(2)(vi), further verification of identity is not required as long as the communication does not suggest that a need for verification has reappeared. If the individual's identity has not been previously verified, SIGAR may require identification validation as described in ยง 9301.14(b)(2)(vi). Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of a request to amend a record should contact the Privacy Officer at the address cited above.

(iii) The exact portion of the record the individual seeks to have amended should be clearly indicated. If possible, the desired proposed alternative language should also be set forth, or at a minimum, the facts which the individual believes are not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete should be set forth with such particularity as to permit SIGAR to understand the basis for the request and to make an appropriate amendment to the record.

(iv) The request should also set forth the reasons why the individual believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. In order to avoid the retention by SIGAR of personal information merely to permit verification of records, the burden of persuading SIGAR to amend a record will be upon the individual. The individual must furnish sufficient facts or credible documentation to persuade the official in charge of the system of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, untimeliness, or incompleteness of the record.
