
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9302 - REQUESTS FOR TESTIMONY OR THE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS IN A COURT OR OTHER PROCEEDINGS IN WHICH THE UNITED STATES IS NOT A PARTY
#### ยง 9302.1 SIGAR Touhy regulations.
##### Applicability.

(a)(1) This section sets forth the policies and procedures of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR or the agency) regarding the testimony of employees and former employees as witnesses and the production or disclosure of SIGAR documents or information for use in legal proceedings in which the United States is not a party and where the demand is pursuant to a subpoena, order or request (collectively referred to in this section as a "demand").

(2) This section does not apply to any legal proceeding in which an employee is to testify while on leave status regarding facts or events that are unrelated to the official business of SIGAR.

(3)(i) Nothing in this section affects the rights and procedures governing public access to agency records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(ii) Demands in legal proceedings in which the United States is not a party for the production of SIGAR records or information, or for the testimony of SIGAR employees, regarding information or documents that are protected by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905) or other statutes, must satisfy the requirements for disclosure set forth in those statutes and the applicable regulations of this part, before the records may be provided or testimony given.

(4) This section is intended to provide guidance for the internal operations of SIGAR and to inform the public about SIGAR procedures concerning service of process upon SIGAR and its responses to demands. The procedures specified in this section, or the failure of any SIGAR employee to follow the procedures specified in this section, are not intended to, do not, and may not be relied upon to create a right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States.
