
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9301 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 9301.20 Exemptions.
###### General exemptions.

(a)(1) Individuals may not have access to records maintained by SIGAR that were provided by another agency that has determined by regulation that such information is subject to general exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(1). If such exempt records are the subject of an access request, SIGAR will advise the requester of their existence and of the name and address of the source agency, unless that information is itself exempt from disclosure.

(2) The systems of records maintained by the Investigations Directorate (SIGAR-08), are subject to general exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). All records contained in record system SIGAR-08, Investigations Records, are exempt from all provisions of the Privacy Act except sections (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11), and (i) to the extent to which they meet the criteria of section (j)(2). These exemptions are necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the investigative, judicial, and protective processes. These exemptions are necessary to ensure the proper functions of the law enforcement activity, to protect confidential sources of information, to fulfill promises of confidentiality, to prevent interference with the enforcement of criminal laws, to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques, to avoid the endangering of the life and safety of any individual, to avoid premature disclosure of the knowledge of potential criminal activity and the evidentiary bases of possible enforcement actions, and to maintain the integrity of the law enforcement process.

(3) The systems of records maintained by the Investigations Directorate (SIGAR-08) are exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), and (5). These exemptions are necessary to protect material required to be kept secret in the interest of national defense and foreign policy; to prevent individuals that are the subject of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process; to ensure the proper functioning and integrity of law enforcement activities; to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques; to maintain the confidence of foreign governments in the integrity of the procedures under which privileged or confidential information may be provided; to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information and to avoid endangering these sources and law enforcement personnel; and to ensure the proper functioning of the investigatory process, to ensure effective determination of suitability, eligibility, and qualification for employment and to protect the confidentiality of sources of information.

(b) [Reserved]
