
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9301 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 9301.19 Schedule of fees.
###### Duplication of records.

(1)Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.10 per page for copying of 4 pages or more. There is no charge for copying fewer pages.

(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25, the person making the request shall be notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will greatly exceed $25, an advance deposit may be required. The notice or request for an advance deposit shall extend an offer to the person requesting to consult with the Privacy Officer in order to reformulate the request in a manner which will reduce the fees, yet still meet the needs of individuals making the request.

(3) Fees must be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. In the event the person requesting is in arrears for previous requests copies will not be provided for any subsequent request until the arrears have been paid in full.

(4) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Treasury of the United States and mailed or delivered to the Privacy Officer, Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, 2530 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.

(5) A receipt for fees paid will be given upon request.
