
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter LXXXIII - Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
### PART 9302 - REQUESTS FOR TESTIMONY OR THE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS IN A COURT OR OTHER PROCEEDINGS IN WHICH THE UNITED STATES IS NOT A PARTY
#### ยง 9302.1 SIGAR Touhy regulations.
##### Factors to be considered by the General Counsel with respect to a Touhy Request.

(e)(1) In deciding whether to authorize the release of official information or the testimony of SIGAR personnel concerning official information (hereafter referred to as the "disclosure"), the General Counsel shall consider the following factors:

(i) Whether the demand is unduly burdensome to the agency or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery, evidence and procedure governing the litigation in which the demand arose, balanced against the need for the specific testimony or documents sought;

(ii) Whether the demand is appropriate under the relevant substantive law of privilege and disclosure of Government information, or seeks information or documents protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b), the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.;

(iii) Whether the demand would interfere with SIGAR's statutory mandate stated in the "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008," Pub. L. 110-181 (Jan. 28, 2008), Section 1229 (122 Stat. 378-85), as amended; Pub. L. 110-181, Section 842 (122 Stat. 234-36), 10 U.S.C. 2302 note; or the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.;

(iv) Whether the demand would be in the public interest;

(v) The extent to which the time of employees for conducting official agency business would be compromised;

(vi) Whether the request demonstrates that the information requested is relevant and material to the action pending, genuinely necessary to the proceeding, unavailable from other sources, and reasonable in scope; and

(vii) Whether other similar requests are likely to have a deleterious cumulative effect on the expenditure of agency time and resources.

(2) Among those demands and requests in response to which compliance will ordinarily not be authorized are those with respect to which any of the following factors exists:

(i) The requested disclosure elicits information or documents protected by a statute, Executive Order or regulation, including but not limited to Section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3, section 7(b), or other prohibition from disclosure;

(ii) The requested disclosure would interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, reveal the identity of an intelligence source, confidential informant or undercover agent, or disclose trade secrets or similar confidential commercial or financial information.

(iii) The integrity of the administrative and deliberative processes of SIGAR would be jeopardized;

(iv) The requested disclosure would not be appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the pending litigation or matter in which the demand arose;

(v) The requested disclosure is not appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege; or

(vi) The requested disclosure, except when production is in camera, would reveal information properly classified or other matters exempt from unrestricted disclosure.
