
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 9701.105 Continuing collaboration.

(a) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 9701(e)(1)(D), this section provides employee representatives with an opportunity to participate in the development of implementing directives. This process is not subject to the requirements established by subpart E of this part, including but not limited to §§ 9701.512 (regarding conferring on procedures for the exercise of management rights), 9701.517(a)(5) (regarding enforcement of the duty to consult or negotiate), 9701.518 (regarding the duty to bargain, confer, and consult), or 9701.519 (regarding impasse procedures).

(b)(1) For the purpose of this section, the term "employee representatives" includes representatives of labor organizations with exclusive recognition rights for units of DHS employees, as well as representatives of employees who are not within a unit for which a labor organization has exclusive recognition.

(2) Consistent with 5 U.S.C. 9701(e)(2)(A), (B), and (D), DHS will determine the number of employee representatives to be engaged in the continuing collaboration process.

(3) Each national labor organization with multiple collective bargaining units accorded exclusive recognition will determine how its units will be represented within the limitations imposed by DHS.

(c)(1) Within timeframes specified by DHS, employee representatives will be provided with an opportunity to submit written comments and/or to discuss their views with DHS officials on proposed final draft implementing directives.

(2) As the Department determines necessary, employee representatives will be provided with an opportunity to discuss their views with DHS officials and/or to submit written comments at initial identification of implementation issues and conceptual design and/or at review of draft recommendations or alternatives.

(d) Employee representatives will be provided with access to information, including research, to make their participation in the continuing collaboration process productive.

(e) Any written comments submitted by employee representatives regarding proposed final draft implementing directives will become part of the record and will be forwarded to the Secretary or designee for consideration in making a final decision.

(f) Nothing in the continuing collaboration process affects the right of the Secretary to determine the content of implementing directives and to make them effective at any time.

(g) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 9701(e)(2), any procedures necessary to carry out this section will be established by the Secretary and the Director jointly as internal rules of Departmental procedure which will not be subject to review.
