
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart B - Classification
##### Classification Structure
###### ยง 9701.212 Bands.

(a) For purposes of identifying relative levels of work and corresponding pay ranges, DHS may, after coordination with OPM, establish one or more bands within each occupational cluster.

(b) Each occupational cluster may include, but is not limited to, the following bands:

(1) Entry/Developmental-work that involves gaining the competencies needed to perform successfully in a Full Performance band through appropriate formal training and/or on-the-job experience.

(2) Full Performance-work that involves the successful completion of any required entry-level training and/or developmental activities necessary to independently perform the full range of non-supervisory duties of a position in an occupational cluster.

(3) Senior Expert-work that involves an extraordinary level of specialized knowledge or expertise upon which DHS relies for the accomplishment of critical mission goals and objectives; reserved for a limited number of non-supervisory employees.

(4) Supervisory-work that may involve hiring or selecting employees, assigning work, managing performance, recognizing and rewarding employees, and other associated duties.

(c) DHS must document in implementing directives the definitions for each band which specify the type and range of difficulty and responsibility, qualifications, competencies, or other characteristics of the work encompassed by the band.

(d) DHS must, after coordination with OPM, establish qualification standards and requirements for each occupational cluster, occupational series, and/or band. DHS may use the qualification standards established by OPM or, after coordination with OPM, may establish different qualification standards. This paragraph does not waive or modify any DHS authority to establish qualification standards or requirements under 5 U.S.C. chapters 31 and 33 and OPM implementing regulations.
