
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Pay and Pay Administration
##### General
###### ยง 9701.303 Waivers.

(a) When a specified category of employees is covered by the pay system established under this subpart, the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 53, and related regulations, are waived with respect to that category of employees, except as provided in ยง 9701.106 and paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b) The following provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 53 are not waived:

(1) Section 5307, dealing with the aggregate limitation on pay;

(2) Sections 5311 through 5318, dealing with Executive Schedule positions;

(3) Section 5371, insofar as it authorizes OPM to apply the provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 74 to DHS employees in health care positions covered by section 5371 in lieu of any DHS pay system established under this subpart or the following provisions of title 5, U.S. Code: Chapters 51, 53, and 61, and subchapter V of chapter 55. The reference to "chapter 51" in section 5371 is deemed to include a classification system established under subpart B of this part; and

(4) Section 5377, dealing with the critical pay authority.

(c) Section 5373 is modified. The limit on rates of basic pay, including any applicable locality payment or supplement, for DHS employees who are not covered by this subpart and whose pay is set by administrative action (e.g., Coast Guard Academy faculty) is increased to the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule.

(d) Section 5379 is modified. DHS may, after coordination with OPM, establish and administer a student loan repayment program for DHS employees, except that DHS may not make loan payments for any noncareer appointees to the SES (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a)(7)) or for any employee occupying a position that is excepted from the competitive service because of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character. Notwithstanding ยง 9701.302(a), any DHS employee otherwise covered by section 5379 is eligible for coverage under the provisions established under this paragraph, subject to a determination by the Secretary or designee under ยง 9701.102(b).

(e) In approving the coverage of employees who would otherwise be covered by a prevailing rate system established under 5 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter IV, DHS may limit the waiver so that affected employees remain entitled to environmental or other differentials established under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4) and night shift differentials established under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) if such employees are grouped in separate occupational clusters (established under subpart B of this part) that are limited to employees who would otherwise be covered by a prevailing rate system.

(f) Employees in SL/ST positions and SES members who are covered by a basic pay system established under this subpart are considered to be paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376 and 5382, respectively, for the purpose of applying 5 U.S.C. 5307(d).
