
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Pay and Pay Administration
##### Locality and Special Rate Supplements
###### ยง 9701.332 Locality rate supplements.

(a) For each band rate range, DHS may, after coordination with OPM, establish locality rate supplements that apply in specified locality pay areas. Locality rate supplements apply to employees whose official duty station is located in the given area. DHS may provide different locality rate supplements for different occupational clusters or for different bands within the same occupational cluster in the same locality pay area.

(b) For the purpose of establishing and modifying locality pay areas, 5 U.S.C. 5304 is not waived. A DHS decision to use the locality pay area boundaries established under 5 U.S.C. 5304 does not require separate DHS regulations. DHS may, after coordination with OPM and in accordance with the public notice and comment provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, publish Departmental regulations (6 CFR Chapter I) in thethat establish and adjust different locality pay areas within the 48 contiguous States or establish and adjust new locality pay areas outside the 48 contiguous States. These regulations are subject to the continuing collaboration process described in ยง 9701.105. As provided by 5 U.S.C. 5304(f)(2)(B), judicial review of any DHS regulation regarding the establishment or adjustment of locality pay areas is limited to whether or not the regulation was promulgated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553.

(c) Locality rate supplements are considered basic pay for only the following purposes:

(1) Retirement under 5 U.S.C. chapter 83 or 84;

(2) Life insurance under 5 U.S.C. chapter 87;

(3) Premium pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 55, subchapter V, or similar payments under other legal authority;

(4) Severance pay under 5 U.S.C. 5595;

(5) Application of the maximum rate limitation set forth in ยง 9701.312;

(6) Determining the rate of basic pay upon conversion to the DHS pay system established under this subpart, consistent with ยง 9701.373(b);

(7) Other payments and adjustments authorized under this subpart as specified by DHS implementing directives;

(8) Other payments and adjustments under other statutory or regulatory authority that are basic pay for the purpose of locality-based comparability payments under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and

(9) Any provisions for which DHS locality rate supplements must be treated as basic pay by law.
