
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Pay and Pay Administration
##### Performance-Based Pay
###### § 9701.342 Performance pay increases.
####### Performance payout.

(d)(1) DHS will determine the value of a performance point, expressed as a percentage of an employee's rate of basic pay (exclusive of locality or special rate supplements under §§ 9701.332 and 9701.333) or as a fixed dollar amount.

(2) To determine an individual employee's performance payout, DHS will multiply the point value determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section by the number of performance points assigned to the rating.

(3) To the extent that the adjustment does not cause the employee's rate of basic pay to exceed the maximum rate of the employee's band rate range, DHS will pay the performance payout as an adjustment in the employee's annual rate of basic pay. Any excess amount may be granted as a lump-sum payment, which may not be considered basic pay for any purpose.

(4) DHS may, after coordination with OPM, determine the effective date of adjustments in basic pay made under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(5) For an employee receiving a retained rate under § 9701.356, DHS will issue implementing directives to provide for granting a lump-sum performance payout that may not exceed the amount that may be received by an employee in the same pay pool with the same rating of record whose rate of pay is at the maximum rate of the same band.
