
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Pay and Pay Administration
##### Pay Administration
###### § 9701.357 Miscellaneous.

(a) Except in the case of an employee who does not receive a pay increase under §§ 9701.323 or 9701.335 because of an unacceptable rating of record, an employee's rate of basic pay may not be less than the minimum rate of the employee's band (or the adjusted minimum rate of that band).

(b) Except as provided in § 9701.356, an employee's rate of basic pay may not exceed the maximum rate of the employee's band rate range.

(c) DHS must follow the rules for establishing pay periods and computing rates of pay in 5 U.S.C. 5504 and 5505, as applicable. For employees covered by 5 U.S.C. 5504, annual rates of pay must be converted to hourly rates of pay in computing payments received by covered employees.

(d) DHS will issue implementing directives regarding the movement of employees to or from a band with a rate range that is increased by a special rate supplement.

(e) For the purpose of applying the reduction-in-force provisions of 5 CFR part 351, DHS must establish representative rates for all band rate ranges.

(f) If a DHS employee moves from the pay system established under this subpart to a GS position within DHS having a higher level of duties and responsibilities, DHS may issue implementing directives that provide for a special increase prior to the employee's movement in recognition of the fact that the employee will not be eligible for a promotion increase under the GS system.
