
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Pay and Pay Administration
##### Transitional Provisions
###### ยง 9701.373 Conversion of employees to the DHS pay system.

(a) When a pay system is established under this subpart and applied to a category of employees, DHS must convert employees to the system without a reduction in their rate of pay (including basic pay and any applicable locality payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304, special rate under 5 U.S.C. 5305, locality rate supplement under ยง 9701.332, or special rate supplement under ยง 9701.333).

(b) When an employee receiving a special rate under 5 U.S.C. 5305 before conversion is converted to an equal rate of pay under the DHS pay system that consists of a basic rate and a locality or special rate supplement, the conversion will not be considered as resulting in a reduction in basic pay for the purpose of applying subpart F of this part.

(c) If another personnel action (e.g., promotion, geographic movement) takes effect on the same day as the effective date of an employee's conversion to the new pay system, DHS must process the other action under the rules pertaining to the employee's former system before processing the conversion action.

(d) An employee on a temporary promotion at the time of conversion must be returned to his or her official position of record prior to processing the conversion. If the employee is temporarily promoted immediately after the conversion, pay must be set under the rules for promotion increases under the DHS system.

(e) The Secretary has discretion to make one-time pay adjustments for GS and prevailing rate employees when they are converted to the DHS pay system. DHS will issue implementing directives governing any such pay adjustment, including rules governing employee eligibility, pay computations, and the timing of any such pay adjustment.

(f) The Secretary has discretion to convert entry/developmental employees in noncompetitive career ladder paths to the pay progression plan established for the Entry/Developmental band to which the employee is assigned under the DHS pay system. DHS will issue implementing directives governing any such conversion, including rules governing employee eligibility, pay computations, and the timing of any such conversion. As provided in paragraph (a) of this section, DHS must convert employees without a reduction in their rate of pay.
