
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart D - Performance Management
##### ยง 9701.406 Setting and communicating performance expectations.

(a) Performance expectations must align with and support the DHS mission and its strategic goals, organizational program and policy objectives, annual performance plans, and other measures of performance. Such expectations include those general performance expectations that apply to all employees, such as standard operating procedures, handbooks, or other operating instructions and requirements associated with the employee's job, unit, or function.

(b) Supervisors and managers must communicate performance expectations, including those that may affect an employee's retention in the job. Performance expectations need not be in writing, but must be communicated to the employee prior to holding the employee accountable for them. However, notwithstanding this requirement, employees are always accountable for demonstrating appropriate standards of conduct, behavior, and professionalism, such as civility and respect for others.

(c) Performance expectations may take the form of-

(1) Goals or objectives that set general or specific performance targets at the individual, team, and/or organizational level;

(2) Organizational, occupational, or other work requirements, such as standard operating procedures, operating instructions, administrative manuals, internal rules and directives, and/or other instructions that are generally applicable and available to the employee;

(3) A particular work assignment, including expectations regarding the quality, quantity, accuracy, timeliness, and/or other expected characteristics of the completed assignment;

(4) Competencies an employee is expected to demonstrate on the job, and/or the contributions an employee is expected to make; or

(5) Any other means, as long as it is reasonable to assume that the employee will understand the performance that is expected.

(d) Supervisors must involve employees, insofar as practicable, in the development of their performance expectations. However, final decisions regarding performance expectations are within the sole and exclusive discretion of management.
