
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.506 Impact on existing agreements.

(a) Any provision of a collective bargaining agreement that is inconsistent with this part and/or its implementing directives is unenforceable on the effective date of coverage under the applicable subpart or directive. In accordance with procedures and time limits established by the HSLRB under ยง 9701.509, an exclusive representative may appeal to the HSLRB the Department's determination that a provision is unenforceable. Provisions that are identified by the Department as unenforceable remain unenforceable unless held otherwise by the HSLRB on appeal. The Secretary or designee, in his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may continue all or part of a particular provision(s) with respect to a specific category or categories of employees and may cancel such continued provisions at any time; such determinations are not precedential.

(b) Upon request by an exclusive representative, the parties will have 60 days after the effective date of coverage under the applicable subpart and/or implementing directive to bring into conformance those remaining negotiable terms directly affected by the terms rendered unenforceable by the applicable subpart and/or implementing directive. If the parties fail to reach agreement by that date, they may utilize the negotiation impasse provisions of ยง 9701.519 to resolve the matter. Agreements reached under this section are subject to approval under ยง 9701.515(d). Nothing in this paragraph will delay the effective date of an implementing directive.
