
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.508 Homeland Security Labor Relations Board.
###### Review of a HSLRB decision.

(h)(1) In order to obtain judicial review of a HSLRB decision, a party must request a review of the record of a HSLRB decision by the Authority by filing such a request in writing within 15 days after the issuance of the decision. Within 15 days after the Authority's receipt of the request for a review of the record, any response must be filed. A party may each submit, and the Authority may grant for good cause shown, a request for a single extension of time not to exceed a maximum of 15 additional days. The Authority will establish, in conjunction with the HSLRB, standards for the sufficiency of the record and other procedures, including notice to the parties. The Authority must defer to findings of fact and interpretations of this part made by the HSLRB and sustain the HSLRB's decision unless the requesting party shows that the HSLRB's decision was-

(i) Arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law;

(ii) Based on error in applying the HSLRB's procedures that resulted in substantial prejudice to a party affecting the outcome; or

(iii) Unsupported by substantial evidence.

(2) The Authority must complete its review of the record and issue a final decision within 30 days after receiving the party's timely response to such request for review. This 30-day time limit is mandatory, except that the Authority may extend its time for review by a maximum of 15 additional days if it determines that-

(i) The case is unusually complex; or

(ii) An extension is necessary to prevent any prejudice to the parties that would otherwise result.

(3) No extension beyond that provided by paragraph (h)(2) of this section is permitted.

(4) If the Authority does not issue a final decision within the mandatory time limit established by paragraph (h) of this section, the Authority will be considered to have denied the request for review of the HSLRB's decision, which will constitute a final decision of the Authority and is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7123.
