
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.508 Homeland Security Labor Relations Board.
###### Composition.

(a)(1) The Homeland Security Labor Relations Board is composed of at least three members who will be appointed by the Secretary for terms of 3 years, except that the appointments of the initial HSLRB members will be for terms of 2, 3, and 4 years, respectively. The Secretary may extend the term of any member beyond 3 years when necessary to provide for an orderly transition and/or appoint the member for an additional term. The Secretary, in his or her sole and exclusive discretion, may appoint additional members to the HSLRB; in so doing, he or she will make such appointments to ensure that the HSLRB consists of an odd number of members.

(2) Members of the HSLRB must be independent, distinguished citizens of the United States who are well known for their integrity and impartiality. Members must have expertise in labor relations, law enforcement, or national/homeland or other related security matters. At least one member of the Board must have experience in labor relations. Members must be able to acquire and maintain an appropriate security clearance. Members may be removed by the Secretary on the same grounds as an FLRA member.

(3) An individual chosen to fill a vacancy on the HSLRB will be appointed for the unexpired term of the member who is replaced.
