
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.508 Homeland Security Labor Relations Board.
###### Procedures of the HSLRB.

(f)(1) The HSLRB will establish procedures for the fair, impartial, and expeditious assignment and disposition of cases. To the extent practicable, the HSLRB will use a single, integrated process to address all matters associated with a negotiations dispute, including unfair labor practices, negotiability disputes, and bargaining impasses. The HSLRB may, pursuant to its regulations, use a combination of mediation, factfinding, and any other appropriate dispute resolution method to resolve all such disputes at the earliest practicable time and with a minimum of process. Such proceedings will be conducted by the HSLRB, a HSLRB member, or employee of the HSLRB. Individual HSLRB members may decide a particular dispute. However, at the motion of a party upon its initial request for HSLRB assistance or upon the HSLRB's own motion at any time, the full HSLRB (or, where the Secretary appoints more than three members, a three-person panel of the HSLRB) may decide a particular dispute involving a matter of first impression or a major policy.

(2) In cases where the full HSLRB acts, a vote of the majority of the HSLRB (or a three-person panel of the HSLRB) will be dispositive. A vacancy on the HSLRB does not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all of the powers of the HSLRB. The vote of the Chair will be dispositive in the event of a tie.
