
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.509 Powers and duties of the HSLRB.
###### de novo

(5) Conductreview of legal conclusions involving all matters within the HSLRB's jurisdiction;

(6) Have discretion to evaluate the evidence presented in the record and reach its own independent conclusions with respect to the matters at issue; and

(7) Assume jurisdiction over any matter concerning Department employees that has been submitted to FLRA pursuant to ยง 9701.510, if the HSLRB determines that the matter affects homeland security.

(b) The HSLRB may issue binding Department-wide opinions, which may be appealed as if they were decisions of the HSLRB in accordance with ยง 9701.508(h).

(c) In issuing opinions under paragraph (b) of this section, the HSLRB may elect to consult with the Authority.

(d)(1) In any matter filed with the HSLRB, if the responding party believes that the HSLRB lacks jurisdiction, that party must timely raise the issue with the HSLRB and simultaneously file a copy of its response with the Authority in accordance with regulations established by the HSLRB. The HSLRB's determination with regard to its jurisdiction in a particular matter is final and not subject to review by the Authority.

(2) If a matter involves one or more issues that are appropriately before the HSLRB and one or more issues that are appropriately before the Authority, the matter must be filed with the HSLRB in accordance with its procedures. The HSLRB will have primary jurisdiction over the matter. The HSLRB will decide those issues within its jurisdiction and will promptly transfer the matter to the Authority for resolution of any remaining issues.
