
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.516 Allotments to representatives.

(a) If the Department has received from an employee in an appropriate unit a written assignment which authorizes the Department to deduct from the pay of the employee amounts for the payment of regular and periodic dues of the exclusive representative of the unit, the Department must honor the assignment and make an appropriate allotment pursuant to the assignment. Any such allotment must be made at no cost to the exclusive representative or the employee. Except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, any such assignment may not be revoked for a period of 1 year.

(b) An allotment under paragraph (a) of this section for the deduction of dues with respect to any employee terminates when-

(1) The agreement between the Department or Department component and the exclusive representative involved ceases to be applicable to the employee; or

(2) The employee is suspended or expelled from membership in the exclusive representative.

(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a petition has been filed with the Authority by a labor organization alleging that 10 percent of the employees in an appropriate unit in the Department have membership in the labor organization, the Authority must investigate the petition to determine its validity. Upon certification by the Authority of the validity of the petition, the Department has a duty to negotiate with the labor organization solely concerning the deduction of dues of the labor organization from the pay of the members of the labor organization who are employees in the unit and who make a voluntary allotment for such purpose.

(2)(i) The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply in the case of any appropriate unit for which there is an exclusive representative.

(ii) Any agreement under paragraph (c)(1) of this section between a labor organization and the Department or Department component with respect to an appropriate unit becomes null and void upon the certification of an exclusive representative of the unit.
