
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### ยง 9701.518 Duty to bargain, confer, and consult.

(a) The Department or appropriate component(s) of the Department and any exclusive representative in any appropriate unit in the Department, through appropriate representatives, must meet and negotiate in good faith as provided by this subpart for the purpose of arriving at a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, the Department or appropriate component(s) of the Department and the exclusive representative may determine appropriate techniques, consistent with the operational rules of the HSLRB, to assist in any negotiation.

(b) If bargaining over an initial collective bargaining agreement or any successor agreement is not completed within 90 days after such bargaining begins, the parties may mutually agree to continue bargaining or mutually agree to refer the matter to an independent mediator/arbitrator for resolution. Alternatively, either party may refer the matter to the HSLRB for resolution in accordance with procedures established by the HSLRB. Either party may refer the matter to the Federal Mediation Conciliation Service (FMCS) for assistance at any time.

(c) If the parties bargain during the term of an existing collective bargaining agreement over a proposed change that is otherwise negotiable, and no agreement is reached within 30 days after such bargaining begins, the parties may mutually agree to continue bargaining or mutually agree to refer the matter to an independent mediator/arbitrator for resolution. Alternatively, either party may refer the matter to the HSLRB for resolution in accordance with procedures established by the HSLRB. Either party may refer the matter to the Federal Mediation Conciliation Service (FMCS) for assistance at any time.

(d)(1) Management may not bargain over any matters that are inconsistent with law or the regulations in this part, Governmentwide rules and regulations, Departmental implementing directives and other policies and regulations, or Executive orders.

(2) In promulgating Departmental policies and regulations that deal with otherwise negotiable subjects, the Department will utilize the process set forth in ยง 9701.512, except that the Department will confer with those labor organizations that request and have been accorded national consultation rights (NCR) established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7113, which is not waived for these purposes, and consult with those organizations on other appropriate matters.

(3) Management has no obligation to bargain over a change to a condition of employment unless the change is otherwise negotiable pursuant to these regulations and is foreseeable, substantial, and significant in terms of both impact and duration on the bargaining unit, or on those employees in that part of the bargaining unit affected by the change.

(4) Management has no obligation to confer or consult as required by this section unless the change is foreseeable, substantial, and significant in terms of both impact and duration on the bargaining unit, or on those employees in that part of the bargaining unit affected by the change.

(5) Nothing in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section prevents or delays management from exercising the rights enumerated in ยง 9701.511.

(e) If a management official involved in collective bargaining with an exclusive representative alleges that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to any matter, the exclusive representative may appeal the allegation to the HSLRB in accordance with procedures established by the HSLRB.
