
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Labor-Management Relations
##### § 9701.522 Exceptions to arbitration awards.

(a)(1) In the case of awards involving the exercise of management rights or the duty to bargain under §§ 9701.511 and 9701.518, either party to arbitration under this subpart may file with the HSLRB an exception to any arbitrator's award. The HSLRB may take such action and make such recommendations concerning the award as is consistent with this subpart.

(2) In the case of awards not involving the exercise of management rights or the duty to bargain under §§ 9701.511 and 9701.518, either party may file exceptions to an arbitration award with the Authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7122 (which is not waived for the purpose of this subpart but which is modified to apply to arbitration awards under this section) and the Authority's regulations.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, exceptions to awards relating to a matter described in § 9701.521(f) may not be filed with the Authority.

(b) If no exception to an arbitrator's award is filed under paragraph (a) of this section during the 30-day period beginning on the date of such award, the award is final and binding. Either party must take the actions required by an arbitrator's final award. The award may include the payment of back pay (as provided under 5 U.S.C. 5596 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart H).

(c) Nothing in this section prevents the HSLRB from determining its own jurisdiction without regard to whether any party has raised a jurisdictional issue.
