
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart G - Appeals
##### ยง 9701.707 Appeals of mandatory removal actions.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1) The MRP will establish procedures for the fair, impartial, and expeditious assignment and disposition of cases, consistent with the requirements set forth in ยง 9701.706(k), as applicable, and for such other matters as may be necessary to ensure the operation of the MRP.

(2) The MRP will conduct a hearing, for which a transcript will be kept, to resolve any factual disputes and other relevant matters. All members will hear a particular appeal and will decide it based on a majority vote of the members. If only two members are serving, the vote of the Chair will be dispositive in the event of a tie.

(3) The appellant has the right to be represented by an attorney or other representative.

(4) The only action available to the MRP is to sustain or overturn a mandatory removal. The MRP does not have authority to mitigate the penalty. Only the Secretary may mitigate the penalty in these cases after the MRP has rendered its decision.

(5) The decision of the Department must be sustained if it is supported by a preponderance of the evidence, unless the employee shows by a preponderance of the evidence-

(i) Harmful error in the application of Department procedures in arriving at the decision;

(ii) That the decision was based on any prohibited personnel practice described in 5 U.S.C. 2302(b); or

(iii) That the decision was not in accordance with law.

(6)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section or as otherwise provided by law, the MRP may require payment by the Department of reasonable attorney fees incurred by an employee if the employee is the prevailing party and the Panel reviewing the initial appeal determines that payment by the Department is warranted in the interest of justice, including any case in which a prohibited personnel practice was engaged in by the Department or any case in which the Department's action was clearly without merit.

(ii) If the employee is the prevailing party and the decision is based on a finding of discrimination prohibited under 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(1), the payment of reasonable attorney fees must be in accordance with the standards prescribed in ยง 706(k) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(k)).

(7) The MRP must issue a written decision (including dissenting opinions, where appropriate) in each case and serve each party and OPM with a copy. These decisions are final and binding.

(8) Failure of the MRP to meet applicable deadlines imposed under ยง 9701.706(k) in a case will not prejudice any party to the case and will not form the basis for any legal action by any party.
