
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVII - Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security - Office of Personnel Management)
### PART 9701 - DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
#### Subpart G - Appeals
##### ยง 9701.707 Appeals of mandatory removal actions.
###### MSPB review.

(c)(1) In order to obtain judicial review of an MRP decision, an employee, the Department, or OPM must request a review of the record of an MRP decision by MSPB by filing such a request in writing within 15 days after the issuance of the decision. Within 15 days after MSPB's receipt of the request for a review of the record, any response or OPM intervention must be filed. A party, or OPM, may each submit, and MSPB may grant for good cause shown, a request for a single extension of time not to exceed a maximum of 15 additional days. MSPB will establish, in conjunction with the MRP, standards for the sufficiency of the record and other procedures, including notice to the parties and OPM. MSPB must accept the findings of fact and interpretations of this part made by the MRP and sustain the MRP's decision unless the employee shows that the MRP's decision was-

(i) Arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law;

(ii) Caused by harmful error in the application of the MRP's procedures in arriving at such decision; or

(iii) Unsupported by substantial evidence.

(2) MSPB must complete its review of the record and issue a final decision within 30 days after receiving the party's timely response to such request for review or OPM's intervention brief, whichever is filed later. This 30-day time limit is mandatory, except that MSPB may extend its time for review by a maximum of 15 additional days if it determines that-

(i) The case is unusually complex; or

(ii) An extension is necessary to prevent any prejudice to the parties that would otherwise result.

(3) No extension beyond that provided by paragraph (c)(2) of this section is permitted.

(4) If MSPB does not issue a final decision within the mandatory time limit established by paragraph (c) of this section, MSPB will be considered to have denied the request for review of the MRP's decision, which will constitute a final decision of MSPB and is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7703.
