
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVIII - Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
### PART 9800 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 9800.102 Requirements for making FOIA requests.
##### Description of records sought.

(b)Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable CIGIE personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist CIGIE in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking. Before making their requests, requesters may contact CIGIE's FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they are seeking and to receive assistance in describing the records. If after receiving a request CIGIE determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, CIGIE will inform the requester what additional information is needed to perfect the request or why the request is otherwise insufficient. CIGIE will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester that additional information is needed or that the request is otherwise insufficient. CIGIE may toll one time for this purpose. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with CIGIE's FOIA Public Liaison. If the requester does not provide the additional information within 30 days, the request will be closed.
