
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVIII - Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
### PART 9800 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 9800.109 Fees.
##### Advance payments.,i.e.,

(i)(1) For requests other than those described in paragraph (i)(2) or (3) of this section, CIGIE will not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(2) When CIGIE determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. CIGIE may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to CIGIE or another agency within 30 days of the billing date, CIGIE may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and CIGIE may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before CIGIE begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where CIGIE has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.

(4) In cases in which CIGIE requires advance payment, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 days after the date of CIGIE's fee determination, the request will be closed.
