
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XCVIII - Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
### PART 9800 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 9800.109 Fees.
##### Search.

(1)(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees will be charged for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. CIGIE may properly charge for time spent searching even if they do not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be as follows: Professional-$10.00; and clerical/administrative-$4.75.

(iii) Requesters will be charged the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. Requesters will be notified of the costs associated with creating such a program and must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.

(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by an agency at a Federal records center operated by National Archives and Records Administration, additional costs will be charged in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by National Archives and Records Administration.
