
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter CIV - Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator
### PART 10400 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### ยง 10400.6 How to request records - form and content.

(a) A request for records must describe the records that it seeks in sufficient detail and in writing to enable IPEC to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, each request must reasonably describe the record(s) sought, including by referencing the type of document; a specific event or action; the title or name, author, recipient, subject matter, date or time period, and/or location of the record; and any other pertinent data that would assist in identifying the record(s) sought. If after receiving a request IPEC determines that the request does not reasonably describe the record(s) sought, IPEC will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Before or after submitting their requests, requesters may contact IPEC's FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the record(s) they seek and for assistance in describing the record(s).

(b)(1) If an individual is making a request for records that are about the individual, the requester must comply with the verification of identity provision set forth in ยง 10400.21(f).

(2) If a request for records pertains to a third party, the requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or an unsworn declaration under 26 U.S.C. 1746 by that individual authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester. As an exercise of administrative discretion, IPEC may require the requester to provide additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure. If the records that are requested pertain to an individual who is deceased, the requester should submit proof of death such as a copy of the death certificate or an obituary.

(c) Requesters may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records they seek. IPEC will accommodate formatting requests if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.

(d) Whenever it is appropriate to do so, IPEC automatically processes a Privacy Act request for access to records under both the Privacy Act and the FOIA, following the rules contained in this part. IPEC processes a request under both the FOIA and Privacy Act so that requesters will receive the maximum amount of information available by law.
