
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter CIV - Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator
### PART 10400 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### ยง 10400.8 Expedited and multi-track processing, and aggregation of requests for processing.
###### Multi-track processing.

(b)IPEC will ordinarily respond to requests in order of their receipt. However, IPEC may use multi-track processing in responding to requests. Multi-track processing means placing requests in a track based on the estimated amount of work or time involved in processing the request. Thus, simple requests that require a limited review would be placed in one processing track, and more voluminous and complex requests would be placed in other processing tracks. Requests in each track are processed on a first-in, first-out basis and, if a request is placed in a track, IPEC will inform the requester of the track placement. Track one is for requests that have received expedited processing under this section. Track two is for requests of simple-to-moderate complexity that do not involve voluminous records and do not require consultation or coordination with other entities or submitter review under ยง 10400.18. Track three is for complex requests that involve voluminous records, require lengthy or numerous consultations or coordination, raise unique or novel legal questions, or require submitter review under ยง 10400.18. In the case of requests in tracks two and three, IPEC may provide requesters the opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing. IPEC will do so by contacting the requester by letter, telephone, email, or facsimile (whichever is more efficient in each case). When providing a requester with the opportunity to limit the scope of a request, IPEC shall also advise the requester of IPEC's FOIA Public Liaison to aid in the resolution of any dispute arising between the requester and IPEC as well as the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
