
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter CIV - Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator
### PART 10400 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### ยง 10400.6 How to request records - form and content.
###### https://www.whitehouse.gov/ipec.,ipecfoia@ipec.eop.gov

(e) Requests must be received by IPEC through methods specified on the FOIA page of IPEC's website:Requests may be emailed at any time toor mailed to Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Executive Office of the President, Washington, DC 20503, Attn: FOIA Officer. Emailed requests are strongly preferred.

(f) The words "FOIA REQUEST" or "REQUEST FOR RECORDS" should be clearly marked on all FOIA request communications.

(g) The requester must provide contact information, such as the requester's phone number, email address or mailing address, so that IPEC will be able to communicate with the requester about the request and provide released records. If IPEC cannot contact the requester, or the requester does not respond within 30 working days to our request for clarification, IPEC will close the request.

(h) To protect our computer systems, IPEC reserves the right to not open attachments to emailed requests. Please include the request within the body of the email, along with such additional information that is relevant, such as information in support of a request for expedited processing, for a fee categorization, or for a fee waiver. If after receiving a request IPEC determines that it does not include sufficient information on which to grant, or deny, a request for expedited process, a fee categorization, or a fee waiver, IPEC will so inform the requester and provide the requester an opportunity to submit additional information in support of such request.
