
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter CIV - Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator
### PART 10400 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### § 10400.9 Extension of time.

(a) In unusual circumstances, IPEC may extend the time limits prescribed in §§ 10400.7 and 10400.8 by written notice to the FOIA requester. The notice will state the reasons for the extension.

(b) The phrase "unusual circumstances" means:

(1) The requested records are located in establishments that are separated from the office processing the request;

(2) A single request seeks a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records; or

(3) Another agency has a substantial interest in the determination of the request.

(c) Whenever IPEC cannot meet the 20 working-day time limit under § 10400.7 for processing a request because of "unusual circumstances," and IPEC extends the time limit on that basis, IPEC shall promptly notify the requester (before the expiration of the 20 working-day period) in writing of the unusual circumstances involved, that an extension of 10 working days has been made, and of the date by which IPEC estimates that it will complete the processing of the request (if completion is not estimated to occur within the 10 working-day extension period). For those requests for which the extension exceeds 10 working days, IPEC will provide the requester an opportunity to modify the request (so that it may be processed within an extension of 10 working days) or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. IPEC will make available its designated FOIA contact or its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. IPEC will also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.
