
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 351 - REDUCTION IN FORCE
##### Subpart E - Retention Standing
###### ยง 351.504 Credit for performance.
####### Multiple rating patterns.

(e)If an agency has employees in a competitive area who have ratings of record under more than one pattern of summary levels, as set forth in ยง 430.208(d) of this chapter, it shall consider the mix of patterns and provide additional retention service credit for performance to employees expressed in additional years of service in accordance with the following:

(1) Additional years of service shall consist of the mathematical average (rounded in the case of a fraction to the next higher whole number) of the additional retention service credit that the agency established for the summary levels of the employee's applicable rating(s) of record.

(2) The agency shall establish the amount of additional retention service credit provided for summary levels only in full years; the agency shall not establish additional retention service credit for summary levels below Level 3 (Fully Successful or equivalent).

(3) When establishing additional retention service credit for the summary levels at Level 3 (Fully Successful or equivalent) and above, the agency shall establish at least 12 years, and no more than 20 years, additional retention service credit for a summary level.

(4) The agency may establish the same number of years additional retention service credit for more than one summary level.

(5) The agency shall establish the same number of years additional retention service credit for all ratings of record with the same summary level in the same pattern of summary levels as set forth in ยง 430.208(d) of this chapter.

(6) The agency may establish a different number of years additional retention service credit for the same summary level in different patterns.

(7) In implementing paragraph (e) of this section, the agency shall specify the number(s) of years additional retention service credit that it will establish for summary levels. This information shall be made readily available for review.

(8) The agency may apply paragraph (e) of this section only to ratings of record put on record on or after October 1, 1997. The agency shall establish the additional retention service credit for ratings of record put on record prior to that date in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
