
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 351 - REDUCTION IN FORCE
##### Subpart H - Notice to Employee
###### § 351.801 Notice period.

(a)(1) Each competing employee selected for release from a competitive level under this part is entitled to a specific written notice at least 60 full days before the effective date of release.

(2) At the same time an agency issues a notice to an employee, it must give a written notice to the exclusive representative(s), as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(16), of each affected employee at the time of the notice. When a significant number of employees will be separated, an agency must also satisfy the notice requirements of §§ 351.803 (b) and (c).

(b) When a reduction in force is caused by circumstances not reasonably foreseeable, the Director of OPM, at the request of an agency head or designee, may approve a notice period of less than 60 days. The shortened notice period must cover at least 30 full days before the effective date of release. An agency request to OPM shall specify:

(1) The reduction in force to which the request pertains;

(2) The number of days by which the agency requests that the period be shortened;

(3) The reasons for the request; and

(4) Any other additional information that OPM may specify.

(c) The notice period begins the day after the employee receives the notice.

(d) When an agency retains an employee under § 351.607 or § 351.608, the notice to the employee shall cite the date on which the retention period ends as the effective date of the employee's release from the competitive level.
