
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 352 - REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
##### Subpart I - Reemployment Rights After Service With the Panama Canal Commission
###### ยง 352.908 Agency obligation.
####### Position to which entitled.

(c)(1) If the function with which the employee's former position was identified has been transferred, the employee's right is to a position in the gaining agency or activity.

(2) An employee whose right is to a position in the Senior Executive Service may be reemployed in or returned to any Senior Executive Service position in the former agency for which qualified.

(3) All other employees are entitled to be reemployed in or returned to a position at the same grade or level and in the same competitive area as the position last held in the former agency. If the reemployment would cause the separation or demotion of another employee, the applicant should be considered an employee for the purpose of applying the reduction-in-force regulations to determine to what, if any, position the employee is entitled. If the employee is not placed at the former grade or level, the agency must extend consideration beyond the competitive area. Responsibility for reemployment is agencywide.

(4) Reemployment may be at a higher grade than that to which the employee is entitled if all appropriate standards and requirements are satisfied and if this will not cause the displacement of another employee.

(5) The reemployment obligation may be satisfied by placement in any position within the agency that is acceptable to the employee.
