
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 359 - REMOVAL FROM THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE; GUARANTEED PLACEMENT IN OTHER PERSONNEL SYSTEMS
##### Subpart D - Removal of Career Appointees During Probation
###### § 359.406 Restrictions.

(a) Removal from the SES under §§ 359.402 through 359.404 may not be made effective within 120 days after-

(1) The appointment of a new agency head; or

(2) The appointment in the agency of the career appointee's most immediate supervisor who-

(i) Is a noncareer appointee; and

(ii) Has the authority to remove the career appointee.

(b) For purposes of this section, a noncareer appointee includes an SES noncareer or limited appointee, an appointee in a position filled by Schedule C, or an appointee in an Executive Schedule or equivalent position other than a career Executive Schedule or equivalent position.

(c) The restrictions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply-

(1) When the career appointee has received a final rating of unsatisfactory under the performance appraisal system established by the agency under subchapter II of chapter 43 of title 5, United States Code, before the appointment of a new agency head or the appointment of the career appointee's most immediate noncareer supervisor who has the authority to remove the career appointee;

(2) To a disciplinary action initiated before the appointment of a new agency head or the appointment of the career appointee's most immediate noncareer supervisor who has the authority to remove the career appointee;

(3) To a disciplinary action when there is a reasonable cause to believe that the career appointee has committed a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment can be imposed; or

(4) To a disciplinary action when the circumstances are such that retention of the career appointee-

(i) May pose a threat to the appointee or others;

(ii) May result in loss of or damage to Government property; or

(iii) May otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government interests.

(d) The following procedures must be observed when an agency invokes an exception to the 120-day restriction under paragraphs (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section:

(1) The agency shall include in the notice the reasons for invoking the exception.

(2) The appointee shall be given a reasonable time, but no less than 7 days, to respond regarding the propriety of the use of the exception.

(3) The agency shall give the appointee a notice of decision on the propriety of the use of the exception at or before the time the action will be effective.

(4) When circumstances require immediate action, the agency may place the appointee in a nonduty status with pay for such time as necessary to effect the action.

(e) The imposition of the 120-day moratorium does not extend the probationary period.
