
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 179 - CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Salary Offset
###### ยง 179.209 Voluntary repayment agreement as alternative to salary offset.

(a)(1) In response to a notice of intent, an employee may propose to repay the debt by making voluntary installment payments as an alternative to salary offset. An employee who wishes to repay a debt without salary offset shall submit in writing a proposed agreement to repay the debt. The proposal shall admit the existence of the debt, and the agreement must be in such form that it is legally enforceable. The agreement must:

(i) Be in writing;

(ii) Be signed by both the employee and the creditor agency;

(iii) Specify all the terms of the arrangement for payment; and

(iv) Contain a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default by the debtor, but such an increase may not result in a deduction that exceeds 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay unless the employee has agreed in writing to deduction of a greater amount (5 CFR 550.1104(i)).

(2) Any proposal under paragraph (a) of this section must be received by the official designated in the notice of intent within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice.

(b) The creditor agency will review a timely and properly submitted repayment proposal by the employee debtor and notify the employee whether the proposed written agreement for repayment is acceptable. It is within the creditor agency's discretion to accept a repayment agreement instead of proceeding by offset.

(c) If the creditor agency decides that the proposed repayment agreement is unacceptable, the employee will have 15 days from the date he or she received notice of that decision to file a petition for a hearing or a special review as provided by ยง 179.210.

(d) If the creditor agency decides that the proposed repayment agreement is acceptable, the alternative arrangement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the creditor agency designee and meet the other requirements of this section for a voluntary repayment agreement.
