
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 370 - INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EXCHANGE PROGRAM
##### ยง 370.101 Purpose.

(a) The purpose of this part is to implement sections 209(b)(6) and (c) of the E-Government Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-347), which authorize the Office of Personnel Management to establish an Information Technology Exchange Program. This statute authorizes the temporary detail of information technology employees between the Federal Government and private sector organizations. The statute also gives Federal agencies the authority to accept private sector information technology employees detailed under the Information Technology Exchange Program.

(b) Agency heads, or their designees, may approve details as a mechanism for improving the Federal workforce's competency in using information technology to deliver Government information and services. Details under this part allow Federal employees to serve with private sector organizations for a limited time period without loss of employee rights and benefits. Agencies may not make details under this part to circumvent personnel ceilings, or as a substitute for other more appropriate personnel decisions or actions. Approved details must meet the strategic program goals of the agency. The benefits to the Federal agency and the private sector organization are the primary considerations in initiating details; not the desires or personal needs of an individual employee.
