
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 410 - TRAINING
##### Subpart C - Establishing and Implementing Training Programs
###### ยง 410.306 Selecting and assigning employees to training.

(a) Each agency shall establish criteria for the fair and equitable selection and assignment of employees to training consistent with merit system principles specified in 5 U.S.C. 2301(b)(1) and (2).

(b) Persons on Intergovernmental Personnel Act mobility assignments may be assigned to training if that training is in the interest of the Government.

(1) A State or local government employee given an appointment in a Federal agency under the authority of section 3374(b) of title 5 of the United States Code, is deemed an employee of the Federal agency. The agency may provide training for the State or local government employee as it does for other agency employees.

(2) A State or local government employee on detail to a Federal agency under the authority of section 3374(c) of title 5 of the United States Code, is not deemed an employee of the Federal agency. However, the detailed State or local government employee may be admitted to training programs the agency has established for Federal personnel and may be trained in the rules, practices, procedures and/or systems pertaining to the Federal government.

(c) Subject to the prohibitions of ยง 410.308(a) of this part, an agency may pay all or part of the training expenses of students hired under the Student Career Experience Program (see 5 CFR 213.3202(d)(10)).
