
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 430 - PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Performance Appraisal for General Schedule, Prevailing Rate, and Certain Other Employees
###### ยง 430.208 Rating performance.
####### Summary levels.

(d)(1) An appraisal program shall use one of the following patterns of summary levels:

(2) Within any of the patterns shown in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, summary levels shall comply with the following requirements:

(i) Level 1 through Level 5 are ordered categories, with Level 1 as the lowest and Level 5 as the highest;

(ii) Level 1 is "Unacceptable";

(iii) Level 3 is "Fully Successful" or equivalent; and

(iv) Level 5 is "Outstanding" or equivalent.

(3) The term "Outstanding" shall be used only to describe a Level 5 summary.

(4) The designation of a summary level and its pattern shall be used to provide consistency in describing ratings of record and as a reference point for applying other related regulations, including, but not limited to, assigning additional retention service credit under ยง 351.504 of this chapter.

(5) Under the provisions of ยง 351.504(e) of this chapter, the number of years of additional retention service credit established for a summary level of a rating of record shall be applied in a uniform and consistent manner within a competitive area in any given reduction in force, but the number of years may vary:

(i) In different reductions in force;

(ii) In different competitive areas; and

(iii) In different summary level patterns within the same competitive area.

(e) A rating of record of "Unacceptable" (Level 1) shall be reviewed and approved by a higher level management official.

(f) The rating of record or performance rating for a disabled veteran shall not be lowered because the veteran has been absent from work to seek medical treatment as provided in Executive Order 5396.

(g) When a rating of record cannot be prepared at the time specified, the appraisal period shall be extended. Once the conditions necessary to complete a rating of record have been met, a rating of record shall be prepared as soon as practicable.

(h) Each rating of record shall cover a specified appraisal period. Agencies shall not carry over a rating of record prepared for a previous appraisal period as the rating of record for a subsequent appraisal period(s) without an actual evaluation of the employee's performance during the subsequent appraisal period.

(i) When either a regular appraisal period or an extended appraisal period ends and any agency-established deadline for providing ratings of record passes or a subsequent rating of record is issued, an agency shall not produce or change retroactively a rating of record that covers that earlier appraisal period except that a rating of record may be changed-

(1) Within 60 days of issuance based upon an informal request by the employee;
