
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 179 - CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Salary Offset
###### ยง 179.214 Interest, penalties and administrative costs.
####### et seq.

The office shall assess interest, penalties and administrative costs on debts owed pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 4 CFR part 101.1Penalties and administrative costs will be assessed on all delinquent debts.

(a) In cases of default on a previous repayment agreement, the Office reserves the right to set a new interest rate which reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time a new repayment agreement is executed.

(b) The Office, on a case-by-case basis, may waive all interest accrued on debts paid in full within 60 days of the due date if there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor.

(c) The Office may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs assessed under this section under the criteria specified in part 103 of 4 CFR, chapter II, relating to the compromise of claims (without regard to the amount of the debt).

(d) The Office may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs assessed under this section if the Office determines that collection of these charges would be against equity and good conscience or not in the best interests of the United States.

(e) The Office shall waive the accrual of interest pending consideration of a request for reconsideration, administrative review, or waiver of the underlying debt under provisions of a permissive statute providing for such review related to the debt.

(f) The Office shall waive interest on repayment agreements when the amount of interest accruing equals or exceeds the amount of installments the debtor can reasonably afford and there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor.
