
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 451 - AWARDS
##### Subpart A - Agency Awards
###### § 451.101 Authority and coverage.

(a) Chapter 45 of title 5, United States Code authorizes agencies to pay a cash award to, grant time-off to, and incur necessary expense for the honorary recognition of, an employee (individually or as a member of a group) and requires the Office of Personnel Management to prescribe regulations governing such authority. Chapter 43 of title 5, United States Code, provides for recognizing and rewarding employees whose performance so warrants. The regulations in this subpart, in combination with chapters 43 and 45 of title 5, United States Code, and any other applicable law, establish the requirements for agency award programs.

(b) Section 4 of E.O. 11438 (Prescribing Procedures Governing Interdepartmental Cash Awards to the Members of the Armed Forces, December 3, 1968) requires the Office of Personnel Management to prescribe procedures for covering the cost of a cash award recommended by more than one agency for a member of the armed forces for the adoption or use of a suggestion, invention, or scientific achievement. Section 1 of E.O. 12828 (Delegation of Certain Personnel Management Authorities, January 5, 1993) delegates to the Office of Personnel Management the authority of the President to permit performance-based cash awards under 5 U.S.C. 4505a to be paid to categories of employees who would not be eligible otherwise.

(c) This subpart applies to employees as defined by section 2105 and agencies as defined by section 4501 of title 5, United States Code, except as provided in §§ 451.105 and 451.201(b).

(d) For the regulatory requirements for granting performance awards to Senior Executive Service (SES) employees under 5 U.S.C. 5384, refer to § 534.405 of this chapter.

(e) An agency may grant performance-based cash awards on the basis of a rating of record at the fully successful level (or equivalent) or above under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 4505a and the provisions of this part to eligible non-GS employees who are covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 45 and this part and who are not otherwise covered by an explicit statutory authority for the payment of such awards, including 5 U.S.C. 5384 (SES performance awards).
