
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 451 - AWARDS
##### Subpart A - Agency Awards
###### ยง 451.106 Agency responsibilities.

(a) In establishing and operating its award program(s), an agency shall assure that a program does not conflict with or violate any other law or Governmentwide regulation.

(b) When a recommended award would grant more than $10,000 to an individual employee, the agency shall submit the recommendation to OPM for approval.

(c) Agencies shall provide for communicating with employees and supervisors (e.g., through formal training) about the relevant parts of their award program(s).

(d) Agencies shall evaluate their award program(s).

(e) Agencies shall document all cash and time off awards in compliance with instructions in the OPM Operating Manual, THE GUIDE TO PROCESSING PERSONNEL ACTIONS, for sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents.

(f) Agencies shall file award documents in the Official Personnel Folder in compliance with instructions in the OPM Operating Manual, THE GUIDE TO PERSONNEL RECORDKEEPING, for sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents.

(g) Agencies shall report award data to the Central Personnel Data File in Compliance with instructions in the OPM Operating Manual, FEDERAL WORKFORCE REPORTING SYSTEMS, for sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents.

(h) Agencies shall maintain and submit to OPM such records as OPM may require.

(i) Agencies shall give due weight to an award granted under this part in qualifying and selecting an employee for promotion as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3362.

(j) Agencies shall take any corrective action required by OPM to ensure conformance with applicable law, regulation, and OPM policy.
