
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 511 - CLASSIFICATION UNDER THE GENERAL SCHEDULE
##### Subpart G - Effective Dates of Position Classification Actions or Decisions
###### ยง 511.701 Effective dates generally.
####### Agency classification actions.

(a)(1) A classification action is a determination to establish or change the title, series, grade or pay system of a position based on application of published position classification standards or guides. This is a position action.

(i) The effective date of a position action taken by an agency shall be the date an official with properly delegated authority approves (certifies) the proposed classification. This is accomplished when the authorized official(s) signs the allocation of the position.

(ii) The effective date of a position action may be extended to correspond with the effective date of the personnel action when:

(A) The position is being changed to lower grade or pay; and

(B) The employee occupying the position is eligible for retained grade or pay under 5 U.S.C. 5362-5363.

(2) A position action is implemented by a personnel action. The personnel action must occur within a reasonable period of time following the date of the position action.

(3) If the position action requires a personnel action which will result in a loss of grade or pay to the occupant of the position, the agency must advise the employee, in writing, of the position action and the proposed date of the personnel action. This notice shall be issued prior to taking a personnel action.

(4) Except as provided in ยง 511.703, classification actions may not be made retroactive.
