
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 511 - CLASSIFICATION UNDER THE GENERAL SCHEDULE
##### Subpart G - Effective Dates of Position Classification Actions or Decisions
###### ยง 511.701 Effective dates generally.
####### Office of Personnel Management's classification decision.

(b)(1) The effective date of a classification decision made by means of a certificate issued under the authority of section 5110, title 5, United States Code is not earlier than the date of the certificate, and not later than the beginning of the fourth pay period following the date of the certificate, unless a subsequent date is specifically stated in the certificate. Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph the filing of an appeal of such a certificate does not delay its effective date.

(2) The implementation of the certificate may be suspended when it is determined before its effective date that a review of the classification decision is warranted and suspension is desirable. The determination to suspend implementation may be made by the Director or the Director's designee. Suspending the implementation of a certificate does not automatically change the effective date except when the certificate requires that the grade or pay of the position be reduced and the employee is not entitled to retained grade or pay.

(3) When the original decision requires that the grade or pay of the position be reduced and the employee is not entitled to retained grade or pay the reviewing authority shall issue a new certificate if it sustains the original decision. Since demotions cannot be made retroactive, the effective date of the new certificate shall be not earlier than the date of the certificate, and not later than the beginning of the fourth pay period after the date of the certificate unless a subsequent date is specifically stated in the certificate.
