
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 530 - PAY RATES AND SYSTEMS (GENERAL)
##### Subpart C - Special Rate Schedules for Recruitment and Retention
###### General Provisions
####### § 530.307 OPM review and adjustment of special rate schedules.

(a) OPM may review an established special rate schedule at any time to determine whether that schedule should be increased, decreased, or discontinued, taking into account the circumstances listed in § 530.304(b) and the factors listed in § 530.306 that led to establishing the schedule. An authorized agency official may request that OPM conduct such a review of one or more special rate schedules.

(b) OPM may designate lead agencies to assist in the review of designated special rate schedules and to coordinate the collection of relevant data. Each affected agency is responsible for submitting complete supporting data upon request to OPM or the lead agency, as appropriate.

(c) OPM will adjust a special rate schedule by determining the amount of the special rate supplement to be paid on top of the current GS rate for each rate range within the schedule. OPM will determine the extent to which special rate supplements are to be adjusted (increased or decreased), if at all, and when the special rate supplements are to be adjusted. As provided in 5 U.S.C. 5305(d), special rate schedule adjustments made by OPM have the force and effect of statute.

(d)(1) For special rate schedules computed by applying a fixed-percentage supplement on top of each GS rate within a rate range, OPM may require that a change in the underlying GS rate automatically results in an adjusted special rate schedule, unless OPM determines that an adjustment in the supplement percentage is appropriate for one or more special rate schedules.

(2) For special rate schedules computed by applying a fixed-dollar supplement on top of each GS rate within a rate range, OPM may require that special rate supplements generally be adjusted to reflect the increase in GS rates, unless OPM determines that a different adjustment is appropriate for one or more special rate schedules.

(e) If OPM determines that a special rate schedule, or a rate range within a special rate schedule, is no longer needed to ensure satisfactory recruitment or retention of qualified employees, OPM may discontinue the schedule or rate range. Consistent with § 530.303(d), if all employees and positions covered by a special rate schedule or rate range are entitled to a higher rate of basic pay, the schedule or rate range (as applicable) will be automatically discontinued.

(f) OPM may change the established conditions for coverage under a special rate schedule at any time based on a reevaluation of the circumstances and factors that led to establishing the schedule. Expansion of coverage is equivalent to establishing a special rate schedule for a category of affected employees. Reduction of coverage is the equivalent of discontinuing a special rate schedule for a category of affected employees.

(g) When a special rate schedule is adjusted or discontinued, or when there is a change in a schedule's coverage criteria, the rate of pay for affected employees must be set as provided in §§ 530.321 through 530.323.
