
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 531 - PAY UNDER THE GENERAL SCHEDULE
##### Subpart B - Determining Rate of Basic Pay
###### Setting Pay When Appointment or Position Changes
####### ยง 531.216 Setting pay when an employee moves from a Department of Defense or Coast Guard nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
######## Voluntary move.

(c)(1) For a Department of Defense or Coast Guard employee who moves voluntarily, without a break in service of more than 3 days, from a NAFI position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard to a GS position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, the agency may set the employee's initial payable rate of basic pay at the lowest step rate in the highest applicable rate range currently in effect for the employee's GS position of record and official worksite which equals or exceeds the employee's NAFI highest previous rate of pay, or any lower step rate, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section. The employee's initial payable rate of basic pay may not exceed the maximum step rate (step 10).

(2) If the highest applicable rate range would be different if the official worksite for the employee's position of record were located at the place where the employee was stationed while earning the NAFI highest previous rate, the agency must determine the employee's maximum payable rate of basic pay as follows:

(i) Compare the NAFI highest previous rate to the highest applicable rate range currently in effect in the location where the employee was stationed while earning that rate. The highest applicable rate range is determined based on the pay schedules that would be applicable to the employee's current GS position of record if the employee were stationed in that location. Identify the lowest step rate in the highest applicable rate range that was equal to or exceeded the NAFI highest previous rate. If the NAFI highest previous rate is less than the range minimum, identify the minimum step rate (step 1). If the NAFI highest previous rate exceeds the range maximum, identify the maximum step rate (step 10).

(ii) Identify the step rate in the highest applicable rate range for the employee's current official worksite and position of record that corresponds to the step rate derived under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. That corresponding rate is the maximum payable rate at which the agency may set the employee's pay under this section, except as provided by paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The agency may set the employee's rate of basic pay at any step rate that does not exceed that maximum payable rate.

(3) An agency may choose to apply the maximum payable rate rule in ยง 531.221 based on a non-NAFI rate of basic pay if that rule provides a higher rate than provided by paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
