
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 531 - PAY UNDER THE GENERAL SCHEDULE
##### Subpart B - Determining Rate of Basic Pay
###### Using a Highest Previous Rate Under the Maximum Payable Rate Rule
####### ยง 531.221 Maximum payable rate rule.
######## General.

(a)(1) An agency may apply the maximum payable rate rule as described in this section to determine an employee's payable rate of basic pay under the GS pay system at a rate higher than the otherwise applicable rate upon reemployment, transfer, reassignment, promotion, demotion, change in type of appointment, termination of a critical position pay authority under 5 CFR part 535, movement from a non-GS pay system, or termination of grade or pay retention under 5 CFR part 536. (Special rules for GM employees are provided in ยง 531.247.) A payable rate set under this section must take effect on the effective date of the action involved. This section may not be used to set an employee's rate of basic pay retroactively unless a retroactive action is required to comply with a nondiscretionary agency policy.

(2) At its discretion, an agency may set an employee's rate(s) of basic pay at the maximum rate identified under this section or at a lower rate. However, the employee's rate may not be lower than the rate to which he or she is entitled under any other applicable pay-setting rule.

(3) In applying this section, an agency must use applicable annual rates of pay or, if a rate under a non-GS system is an hourly rate, convert the hourly rate to an annual rate.

(4) In applying this section, an agency must treat a critical position pay rate under 5 CFR part 535 as if it were a rate under a non-GS pay system, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) In applying this section, an agency must treat an adjusted GS rate that includes market pay under 38 U.S.C. 7431(c) as if it were a rate under a non-GS pay system, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
