
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### ยง 532.205 The use of Federal, State, and local minimum wage requirements in determining prevailing rates.

(a) Wage schedules, including special schedules, shall not include any rates of pay less than the higher of:

(1) The minimum rate prescribed by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, or

(2) The highest State or local minimum wage rate in the local wage area which is applicable to the private industry counterparts of the single largest Federal industry/occupation in the wage area.

(b) Wage data below the minimum wage rates prescribed by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, shall not be used in determining prevailing rates.

(c) Adjustments to regular wage schedules to comply with the minimum wage rate determined to be applicable under paragraph (a) of this section shall be computed as follows:

(1) The step 2 rate of grade 1 of the nonsupervisory wage schedule shall be set at a rate which, upon application of the 4 percent step-rate differential, provides a step 1 rate which is equal to the applicable minimum wage rate.

(2) An intergrade differential shall be determined as 5 percent of the rate established as the step 2 rate of grade 1, rounded to the nearest whole cent. This intergrade differential shall be added to the step 2 rate of each grade, beginning with grade 1, to determine the step 2 rate for the succeeding grade until the grade is reached at which the step 2 rate established through the wage survey process equals or exceeds the rate determined under this procedure. Rates of all grades above that point shall be computed in accordance with ยง 532.221(b) of this subpart.

(3) Steps 1, 3, 4, and 5 of each grade adjusted under paragraph (c) of this section shall be set at 96, 104, 108, and 112 percent of the step 2 rate, respectively.

(4) The leader and supervisory wage schedule grades corresponding to each nonsupervisory grade adjusted under paragraph (c) of this section shall be constructed in accordance with the procedures of ยง 532.203 of this subpart, on the basis of the step 2 rates established under this paragraph for the nonsupervisory wage schedule grades.

(d) All wage schedule adjustments made under this section shall be effective on the effective date of the applicable minimum wage rate.
