
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### ยง 532.207 Time schedule for wage surveys.

(a) Wage surveys shall be conducted on a 2-year cycle at annual intervals.

(b) A full-scale survey shall be made in the first year of the 2-year cycle and shall include development of a current sample of establishments and the collection of wage data by visits to establishments. With the unanimous consent of the members of a Local Wage Survey Committee, data may also be obtained from a private sector establishment or establishments during a full-scale wage survey by telephone, mail, or electronic means.

(c) A wage-change survey shall be made every other year using only the same employers, occupations, survey jobs, and establishment weights used in the preceding full-scale survey. Data may be collected by telephone, mail, electronic means, or personal contact.

(d) Scheduling of surveys shall take into consideration the following criteria:

(1) The best timing in relation to wage adjustments in the principal local private enterprise establishments;

(2) Reasonable distribution of workload of the lead agency;

(3) The timing of surveys for nearby or selected wage areas; and

(4) Scheduling relationships with other pay surveys.

(e) The Office of Personnel Management may authorize adjustments in the normal cycle as requested by the lead agency and based on the criteria in paragraph (d) of this section or to accommodate special studies or adjustments consistent with determining local prevailing rates.

(f) The beginning month of appropriated and nonappropriated fund wage surveys and the fiscal year during which full-scale surveys will be conducted are set out as appendices A and B to this subpart and are incorporated in and made part of this section.
