
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### ยง 532.233 Preparation for full-scale wage surveys.

(a) The local wage survey committee, prior to each full-scale survey:

(1) Shall hold a public hearing to receive recommendations from interested parties concerning the area, industries, establishments and jobs to be covered in the wage survey.

(2) Shall prepare a summary of the hearings and submit it to the lead agency together with the committees' recommendations concerning the survey specifications prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) May make any other recommendations concerning the local wage survey which it considers appropriate.

(b) The lead agency shall consider the local wage survey committee's report if:

(1) The lead agency proposes not to accept the recommendations of the local wage survey committee concerning the specifications of the local wage survey; or

(2) The local wage survey committee's report is accompanied by a minority report.

(c) The lead agency shall develop survey specifications after taking into consideration the reports and recommendations received from the local wage survey committee and, if applicable, the agency wage committee. The survey specifications shall include:

(1) The counties to be surveyed;

(2) The industries to be surveyed;

(3) The standard minimum size of establishments to be surveyed;

(4) Establishments to be surveyed with certainty; and

(5) The survey jobs.

(d) A list of establishments to be surveyed shall be prepared through use of statistical sampling techniques in accordance with the specifications developed by the lead agency. A copy of this list shall be forwarded to the local wage survey committee.
