
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### § 532.247 Wage change surveys.

(a) Wage change surveys shall be conducted in each wage area in years during which full-scale wage surveys are not conducted.

(b) Data shall be collected in wage change surveys only from establishments which participated in the preceding full-scale survey. Information concerning pay adjustments of general application in effect for jobs matched in each establishment which participated in the preceding full-scale survey shall be obtained.

(c) Data may be obtained in wage change surveys by telephone, mail, electronic means, or personal visit. The chairperson of the local wage survey committee shall determine the manner in which establishments will be contacted for collection of data. Data may be collected by the local wage survey committee members or by data collectors appointed and assigned to two member teams in accordance with § 532.233(e) of this subpart.

(d) Wage change survey data may not be collected before the date ordered by the lead agency.

(e) The local wage survey committee shall review all wage change survey data collected and forward the data to the lead agency. Where appropriate, the committee shall also forward to the lead agency a report of unusual circumstances surrounding the survey.

(f) The lead agency shall review the wage change survey data and, if applicable, the report filed by the local wage survey committee.

(g)(1) The lead agency shall recompute the line selected under § 532.245(a) of this subpart in the preceding full-scale survey using the wage change survey data and shall construct wage schedules therefrom in accordance with § 532.203 and, if appropriate, § 532.205 of this subpart.

(2) The lead agency shall consult with the agency wage committee in accordance with § 532.243 of this subpart.

(3) Records of this process shall be maintained in accordance with § 532.245(b) of this subpart.

(h) The wage schedules shall be issued and authorized in accordance with § 532.245 (c) and (d) of this subpart.
