
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### ยง 532.265 Special wage schedules for apprentices and shop trainees.

(a) Agencies may establish special wage schedules for apprentices and shop trainees who are included in:

(1) Formal apprenticeship programs involving training for journeyman level duties in occupations that are recognized as apprenticeable by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, U.S. Department of Labor; or

(2) Formal shop trainee programs involving training for journeyman level duties in nonapprenticeable occupations that require specialized trade or craft skill and knowledge.

(b) Special schedules shall consist of a single wage rate for each training period. Wage rates shall be determined as follows:

(1) Rates shall be based on the current second step rate of the target journeyman grade level on the regular nonsupervisory wage schedule for the area where the apprentice or trainee is employed.

(2) The entrance rate shall be computed at 65 percent of the journeyman level, step 2, rate, or the WG-1, step 1, rate, whichever is greater.

(3) When the WG-1, step 1, rate is used, the apprentice rate shall be increased by a minimum of 5 cents per hour for each succeeding increment interval until the rate obtained by this method equals the rate computed under the formula. No increase shall be less then 5 cents per hour.

(c) Advancement to higher increments shall be at 26-week intervals, regardless of the total length of the training period. Intermediate rates shall be established by subtracting the entrance rate from the journeyman level, step 2 rate, and dividing the difference by the number of 26-week periods of the particular training term. The resulting quotient equals the increment for each succeeding rate.

(d) Agencies may hire at advanced rates or accelerate progression through scheduled wage rates if prescribed by approved agency training standards or programs.

(e) If the employee is promoted to the target job or to a job at the same grade level, the promotion shall be to the second step rate. If the employee is assigned to a job at a grade level that is less than the grade level of the target job, existing pay fixing rules shall be followed.
