
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Prevailing Rate Determinations
###### ยง 532.283 Special wage schedules for nonappropriated fund tipped employees classified as waiter/waitress.

(a) Tipped employees shall be paid from the regular nonappropriated fund (NAF) schedule applicable to the employee's duty station.

(b) A tip offset may be authorized for employees classified as Waiter/Waitress. For purposes of this section, a tipped employee is one who is engaged in an occupation in which he or she customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips, and a tip offset is the amount of money by which an employer, in meeting legal minimum wage standards, may reduce a tipped employee's cash wage in consideration of the receipt of tips.

(c) A tip offset may be established, abolished, or adjusted by NAF instrumentalities on an annual basis and at such additional times as new or revised minimum wage statutes require. The amount of any tip offset may vary within a single instrumentality based on location, type of service, or time of service.

(d) If tipped employees are represented by a labor organization holding exclusive recognition, the employing NAF instrumentality shall negotiate with such organization to arrive at a determination as to whether, when, and how much tip offset shall be applied. Changes in tip offset practices may be made more frequently than annually as a result of collective bargaining agreement.

(e) Tip offset practices shall be governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, or the applicable statutes of the State, possession or territory where an employee works, whichever provides the greater benefit to the employee. In locations where tip offset is prohibited by law, the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section do not apply.
