
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart C - Determining Rates for Principal Types of Positions
###### ยง 532.307 Determinating whether a dominant industry exists in a wage area.

(a) The chairperson of the local wage survey committee shall, before a full-scale wage survey is scheduled to begin, notify all appropriated or nonappropriated fund activities having employees subject to the wage schedules for which the survey is conducted so that organizations and individuals may submit written recommendations and supporting evidence to the local wage survey committee concerning principal types of appropriated or nonappropriated fund positions in the area. Each appropriated or nonappropriated fund activity shall publicize the opportunity to make such recommendations.

(b)(1) Before conducting a full-scale wage survey an occupational inventory of employees subject to the wage schedules for which the survey is conducted shall be obtained from each appropriated or nonappropriated fund activity in the area having such employees.

(2) After reviewing the occupational inventory and considering the recommendations received pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the local wage survey committee shall formulate its recommendations and prepare a written report concerning the existence of specialized industries within the wage area.

(3) The report of the recommendations, the occupational inventory, and the recommendations and supporting evidence received pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be forwarded to the lead agency.

(c) The lead agency shall refer the occupational inventory and the reports received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section to the agency wage committee for its consideration and recommendation if:

(1) The lead agency proposes not to accept the recommendation of the local wage survey committee concerning the specifications of the local wage survey; or

(2) The local wage survey committee's report is accompanied by a minority report.

(d) The lead agency shall determine, in writing, after taking into consideration the reports and recommendations received under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and prior to ordering a full-scale wage survey to begin, whether the principal types of appropriated or nonappropriated fund positions in a local wage area comprise a dominant industry. The determination shall remain in effect until the next full-scale wage survey in the area.
