
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart C - Determining Rates for Principal Types of Positions
###### ยง 532.317 Use of data from the nearest similar area.

(a)(1) For prevailing rate employees other than those in the Department of Defense, the lead agency shall, in establishing the regular schedule under the provisions of this subpart, analyze and use the acceptable data from the nearest similar wage area together with the data obtained from inside the local wage survey area. The regular schedule for Department of Defense prevailing rate employees shall be based on local wage data only.

(2) The total number of job matches obtained from the nearest similar wage area shall be equal to the number required for adequacy in ยง 532.309(a) (2) and (3) of this subpart for appropriated fund surveys and ยง 532.309(b)(2) of this subpart for nonappropriated fund surveys.

(3) Data shall be selected for inclusion on the basis of the most populous survey jobs as determined by the weighted job matches found in the dominant industry in the selected reference area. In identifying survey jobs for which reference area samples will be included, the jobs required at limited grade ranges shall be selected before jobs in the unlimited grade range. When there is a tie in the selection procedure, the highest graded job shall be selected first.

(4) If there are two dominant industries for which data are obtained from nearest similar areas, the procedure described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be applied independently for each of the specialized industries.

(b)(1) The wage rates established for a grade by using data from the nearest similar area may not exceed the wage rates for the same grade in the nearest similar area.

(2) If data are obtained from two nearest similar areas for two dominant industries, the wage rates established for a grade by using these data may not exceed the higher of the wage rates for the same grade in the two nearest similar areas.

(c) The wage data obtained from the nearest similar area or areas may not be used to reduce the wage rates for any grade in the local area below the rates that would be established for that grade without the use of the data from the nearest similar area or areas.
