
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart E - Premium Pay and Differentials
###### ยง 532.503 Overtime pay.
####### Callback overtime work.

(c)Irregular or occasional overtime work performed by an employee on a day when work was not regularly scheduled for the employee or for which the employee has been required to return to the place of employment shall be considered to be at least two hours in duration for the purpose of overtime pay, regardless of whether the employee performs work for two hours.

(d)(1) An employee regularly assigned to a night shift, who performs overtime work which extends into or falls entirely within a day shift, shall be entitled to overtime pay computed on the night rate.

(2) When the overtime is performed on a nonworkday the employee shall be entitled to overtime pay computed on the rate of the employee's last previous regularly scheduled shift.

(e)(1) An employee regularly assigned to a rotating schedule involving work on both day and night shifts who performs overtime work which extends or falls entirely within the succeeding shift shall be entitled to overtime pay computed on the rate of the employee's regularly scheduled shift in effect for that calendar day.

(2) When the overtime is performed on a nonworkday, the employee shall be entitled to overtime pay computed on the average rate of basic pay for all regularly scheduled shifts worked by the employee during the basic workweek.

(f) For an employee covered by 5 U.S.C. 5544, hours in a standby or on-call status or while sleeping or eating shall not be credited for the purpose of determining hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day.
