
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 532 - PREVAILING RATE SYSTEMS
##### Subpart H - Payment of Unrestricted Rates for Recruitment or Retention Purposes
###### ยง 532.801 Payment of unrestricted rates for recruitment or retention purposes.

(a) When authorized by specific statutory authority providing for exceptions to pay limitations imposed by statute, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) may approve exceptions to the pay limitations if OPM determines that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of qualified employees.

(b) Requests for payment of unrestricted rates under this subpart shall be submitted by employing agencies' headquarters to the appropriate lead agency. The lead agency shall coordinate each request with other agencies, as necessary, and submit a consolidated request to OPM. The consolidated request shall include any available supporting wage survey data and a formal recommendation by the lead agency to approve or disapprove the request.

(c) Rates authorized under paragraph (a) of this section shall be equal to the regular or special schedule unrestricted (uncapped) rates and may be authorized for use within all or part of a wage area for a designated occupation or occupational specialization and grade.

(d) In approving rates under this subpart, OPM shall consider the factors specified in ยง 532.251(b) of this part.

(e) The unrestricted rates authorized under this subpart shall be shown on the appropriate regular or special schedule or as an amendment to the schedule and shall indicate the wage area (or part thereof) and each occupation or occupational specialization and grade for which the rates are authorized. These rates shall be paid by all agencies having such positions in the wage area (or part thereof) specified.
