
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 534 - PAY UNDER OTHER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart C - Basic Pay for Employees of Temporary Organizations
###### ยง 534.304 Basic pay for staff positions.

(a)(1) Rates of basic pay for staff or other non-executive level positions of temporary organizations may not exceed the maximum rate of basic pay for grade GS-15 of the General Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5332, excluding any locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304.

(2) In establishing rates of basic pay for staff and other non-executive level positions of temporary organizations, the head of a temporary organization must give consideration to the significance, scope, and technical complexity of the position and the qualifications required for the work involved. The head of a temporary organization must also take into account the rates of pay applicable to Federal employees who have duties that are similar in terms of difficulty and responsibility.

(b) Employees in staff and other non-executive level positions of temporary organizations must be paid locality payments in addition to basic pay in the same manner as employees covered by 5 U.S.C. 5304. Locality-adjusted rates of basic pay may not exceed the locality-adjusted rate of basic pay for grade GS-15 of the General Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5304, for the locality pay area involved (not to exceed the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule).

(c) Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the rate of basic pay and locality-adjusted rate of basic pay for a senior staff position of a temporary organization may, in a case determined by the head of a temporary organization to be exceptional, exceed the maximum rates established under those paragraphs. However, the higher payable rates may not exceed the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule.
