
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 534 - PAY UNDER OTHER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart D - Pay and Performance Awards Under the Senior Executive Service
###### ยง 534.406 Conversion to the SES pay system.

(a) On the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004, agencies must convert an existing SES rate of basic pay for a senior executive to an SES rate of basic pay that is equal to the employee's rate of basic pay, plus any applicable locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 which the senior executive was receiving immediately before that date, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The newly converted rate is the senior executive's SES rate of basic pay. An agency's establishment of an SES rate of basic pay for a senior executive under this paragraph is not considered a pay adjustment for the purpose of applying ยง 534.404(c).

(b) An SES member's rate of basic pay, plus any applicable locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 to which the employee was entitled on November 24, 2003, may not be reduced for 1 year after the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004. If an SES member's rate of basic pay, plus any applicable locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304 to which the employee was entitled on November 23, 2003, is higher than the rate in effect immediately prior to the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004, the agency must use the higher rate for the purpose of converting SES members to the SES pay system.

(c) An SES member who is assigned to a position outside the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia to a position overseas or in Alaska, Hawaii, Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or other U.S. territories and possessions as of the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004, will be converted to a new rate of basic pay that equals the senior executive's current rate of basic pay, plus the amount of locality pay authorized under 5 U.S.C. 5304 for the applicable locality pay area upon the employee's initial reassignment to a position in the 48 contiguous States or the District of Columbia. The adjustment will be prospective, not retroactive, and it will not be considered a pay adjustment for the purpose of applying ยง 534.404(c). If the senior executive's rate of basic pay did not exceed the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule while assigned to a position outside the 48 contiguous States or the District of Columbia, upon initial reassignment to a locality pay area the senior executive's converted rate of basic pay may not exceed the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule. The newly converted rate is the senior executive's SES rate of basic pay.

(d) On the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2004, a law enforcement officer (LEO), as defined in 5 CFR 531.301, who is a member of the SES will have his or her rate of basic pay, plus any applicable special geographic pay adjustment established for LEOs under section 404(a) of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-509) to which he or she was entitled immediately before that date, converted to a new SES rate of basic pay. The newly converted rate is the senior executive's SES rate of basic pay, and any pay adjustments approved on or after January 11, 2004, must be computed based on the senior executive's converted rate of basic pay. Conversion to a new SES rate of basic pay is not considered a pay adjustment for the purpose of applying ยง 534.404(c).
