
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart A - Premium Pay
###### General Provisions
####### § 550.101 Coverage and exemptions.
######## Employees to whom this subpart does not apply.

(b)This subpart does not apply to:

(1) An elected official;

(2) The head of a department;

(3) [Reserved]

(4) An employee whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates under subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, or by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose, except that § 550.113(d) is applicable to such an employee whose rate of basic pay is fixed on an annual or monthly basis;

(5) An employee outside the continental United States or in Alaska who is paid in accordance with local prevailing wage rates for the area in which employed;

(6) An employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority;

(7) An employee of the Central Intelligence Agency (sec. 10, 63 Stat. 212, as amended; 50 U.S.C. 403j);

(8) A seaman to whom section 1(a) of the act of March 24, 1943 (57 Stat. 45; 50 U.S.C. App. 1291(a)) applies;

(9) A member of the United States Park Police or the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, except for the purpose of night pay under §§ 550.121 and 550.122, pay for holiday work under §§ 550.131 and 550.132, and pay for Sunday work under §§ 550.171 and 550.172 of this subpart;

(10) An officer or member of the crew of a vessel, whose pay is fixed and adjusted from time to time as nearly as is consistent with the public interest in accordance with prevailing rates and practices in the maritime industry (30 Comp. Gen. 158);

(11) A civilian keeper of a lighthouse, or a civilian employed on a lightship or another vessel of the Coast Guard (14 U.S.C. 432(f));

(12) A physician, dentist, nurse, or any other employee in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans Administration, whose pay is fixed under chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code;

(13) A student-employee as defined by section 5351 of title 5, United States Code;

(14) An employee of the Environmental Science Services Administration engaged in the conduct of meteorological investigations in the Arctic region (62 Stat. 286; 15 U.S.C. 327);

(15) An employee of a Federal land bank, a Federal intermediate credit bank, or a bank for cooperatives;

(16) A "teacher" or an individual holding a "teaching position" as defined by section 901 of title 20, United States Code;

(17) A Foreign Service officer or a member of the Senior Foreign Service; or

(18) A member of the Senior Executive Service.
