
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart A - Premium Pay
###### Overtime Pay
####### ยง 550.112 Computation of overtime work.
######## Time spent in preshift or postshift activities.

(b)A preshift activity is a preparatory activity that an employee performs prior to the commencement of his or her principal activities, and a postshift activity is a concluding activity that an employee performs after the completion of his or her principal activities. Such activities are not principal activities as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) (i) If the head of a department reasonably determines that a preshift or postshift activity is closely related to an employee's principal activities, and is indispensable to the performance of the principal activities, and that the total time spent in that activity is more than 10 minutes per daily tour of duty, he or she shall credit all of the time spent in that activity, including the 10 minutes, as hours of work.

(ii) If the time spent in a preshift or postshift activity is compensable as hours of work, the head of the department shall schedule the time period for the employee to perform that activity. An employee shall be credited with the actual time spent in that activity during the time period scheduled by the head of the department. In no case shall the time credited for the performance of an activity exceed the time scheduled by the head of the department. If the time period scheduled by the head of the department for the performance of a pereshift or postshift activity is outside the employee's daily tour of duty, the employee shall be credited with the time spent performing that activity in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) A preshift or postshift activity that is not closely related to the performance of the principal activities is considered a preliminary or postliminary activity. Time spent in preliminary or postliminary activities is excluded from hours of work and is not compensable, even if it occurs between periods of activity that are compensable as hours of work.
