
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart A - Premium Pay
###### Overtime Pay
####### ยง 550.112 Computation of overtime work.
######## Sleep and meal time.

(m)(1) Bona fide sleep and meal periods may not be considered hours of work, except as provided in paragraphs (m)(2), (m)(3), and (m)(4) of this section. If a sleep or meal period is interrupted by a call to duty, the time spent on duty is hours of work.

(2) Sleep and meal periods during regularly scheduled tours of duty are hours of work for employees who receive annual premium pay for regularly scheduled standby duty under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1).

(3) When employees are assigned to work shifts of 24 hours or more during which they must remain within the confines of their duty station in a standby status, and for which they do not receive annual premium pay for regularly scheduled standby duty under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1), the amount of bona fide sleep and meal time excluded from hours of work may not exceed 8 hours in any 24-hour period. No sleep time may be excluded unless the employee had the opportunity to have an uninterrupted period of at least 5 hours of sleep during the applicable sleep period. For work shifts of less than 24 hours, agencies may not exclude on-duty sleep periods from hours of work, but must exclude bona fide meal periods during which the employee is completely relieved from duty.

(4) For firefighters compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5545b, on-duty sleep and meal time may not be excluded from hours of work.
