
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart A - Premium Pay
###### General Rules Governing Payments of Premium Pay on an Annual Basis
####### § 550.161 Responsibilities of the agencies.

The head of each agency, or an official who has been delegated authority to act for the head of an agency in the matter concerned, is responsible for:

(a) Fixing tours of duty; ordering employees to remain at their stations in a standby status; and placing responsibility on employees for remaining on duty when required by circumstances.

(b) Determining, in accordance with section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart, which employees shall receive premium pay on an annual basis under § 550.141 or § 550.151. These determinations may not be retroactive.

(c) Determining the number of hours of actual work to be customarily required in positions involving longer than ordinary periods of duty, a substantial part of which consists of standby duty. This determination shall be based on consideration of the time required by regular, repetitive operations, available records of the time required in the past by other activities, and any other information bearing on the number of hours of actual work which may reasonably be expected to be required in the future.

(d) Determining the number of hours of irregular or occasional overtime work to be customarily required in positions which require substantial amounts of irregular or occasional overtime work with the employee generally being responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require him to remain on duty. This determination shall be based on consideration of available records of the hours of irregular or occasional overtime work required in the past, and any other information bearing on the number of hours of duty which may reasonably be expected to be required in the future.

(e) Determining the rate of premium pay fixed by OPM under § 550.144 or § 550.154 which is applicable to each employee paid under § 550.141 or § 550.151; or, if no rate fixed under § 550.144 or § 550.154 is considered applicable, proposing a rate of premium pay on an annual basis to OPM.

(f) Reviewing determinations under paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section at appropriate intervals, and discontinuing payments or revising rates of premium pay on an annual basis in each instance when that action is necessary to meet the requirements of section 5545(c) of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart.
