
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart B - Advances in Pay
###### § 550.205 Recovery of advances in pay.

(a) Unless repayment is waived in whole or in part under § 550.206 of this part, an agency shall recover an advance in pay by installments under agency procedures for payroll deductions or by salary offset procedures established under subpart K of this part. An employee may prepay all or part of the remaining balance of an advance in pay at any time before payments are due.

(b) An agency shall establish a recovery period for each employee to repay an advance in pay, but no agency may establish a recovery period of longer than 14 pay periods beginning on the date the advance in pay is made to the employee under § 550.203 of this part. If a longer period for recovery is necessary to avoid exceeding the limitation on deductions described in § 550.1104(i) of this part, recovery may be accomplished under salary offset procedures established under subpart K of this part. Upon written request, an employee may elect a recovery period of less than 14 pay periods.

(c) If an employee transfers to another agency or employment with an agency is terminated for any reason, the remaining balance of an advance in pay not yet repaid is due and must be repaid to the Federal Government unless repayment is waived in whole or in part under § 550.206 of this part.

(d) Any remaining balance of an advance in pay that has not been waived under § 550.206 of this part or repaid by an employee upon transfer or termination of employment must be recovered by an agency using procedures for salary offset under subpart K of this part and/or by such other method as is provided by law.
