
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart D - Payments During Evacuation
###### ยง 550.403 Advance payments; evacuation payments; special allowances.

(a) An advance payment of pay, allowances, and differentials may be made to an employee who has received an order to evacuate, provided that, in the opinion of the agency head or designated official, payment in advance of the date on which an employee otherwise would be entitled to be paid is required to help the employee defray immediate expenses incidental to the evacuation.

(b) Evacuation payments of pay, allowances, and differentials may be made to an employee during an evacuation and shall be paid on the employee's regular pay days when feasible.

(c) Special allowances, including travel expenses and per diem, may be paid to evacuated employees to offset any direct added expenses that are incurred by the employee as a result of his or her evacuation or the evacuation of his or her dependents.

(d) An advance payment or an evacuation payment may be paid to the employee, a dependent 16 years of age or over, or a designated representative. When payment is made to someone other than the employee, prior written authorization by the employee must have been provided to the authorizing agency official.

(e) Any agency may make payments in an evacuation situation to an employee of another Federal agency (or his or her dependent(s) or personal representative) who has received an order to evacuate. When a payment is made under this subpart by an agency other than the employee's agency, the agency making the payment shall immediately report the amount and date of the payment to the employee's agency in order that prompt reimbursement may be made.
