
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart D - Payments During Evacuation
###### ยง 550.405 Determination of special allowances.

In determining the direct added expenses that may be payable as special allowances, the following shall be considered:

(a) An agency must determine the travel expenses and per diem for an evacuated employee and the travel expenses for his or her dependents in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) and any applicable implementing agency regulations, whether or not the employee or dependents are actually covered by or subject to the FTR. In addition, an agency may authorize per diem for dependents of an evacuated employee at a rate equal to the rate payable to the employee, as determined in accordance with the FTR (except that the rate for dependents under 12 years of age is one-half this rate), whether or not the employee or dependents are actually covered by or subject to the FTR. Per diem for an employee and his or her dependents is payable from the date of departure from the evacuated area through the date of arrival at the safe haven, including any period of delay en route that is beyond an evacuee's control or that may result from evacuation travel arrangements.

(b) Subsistence expenses for an evacuated employee or his or her dependents shall be determined at applicable per diem rates for the safe haven or for a station other than the safe haven that has been approved by appropriate authority. Such subsistence expenses shall begin to be paid on the date following arrival and may continue until terminated. The subsistence expenses shall be computed on a daily rate basis, as follows:

(1) An agency must compute the applicable maximum per diem rate by using the "lodgings-plus per diem system," as defined in the FTR, for the employee and each dependent who is 12 years of age or over. For each dependent under 12 years of age, the per diem rate is one-half of the applicable maximum per diem rate for employees and dependents who are 12 years of age or over. An agency may pay these maximum rates for a period not to exceed the first 30 days of evacuation.

(2) If, after expiration of the 30-day period, the evacuation has not been terminated, the per diem rate shall be computed at 60 percent of the rates prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section until a determination is made by the agency that subsistence expenses are no longer authorized. This rate may be paid for a period not to exceed 180 days after the effective date of the order to evacuate.

(3) The daily rate of the subsistence expense allowance actually paid an employee shall be either a rate determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section or a lower rate determined by the agency to be appropriate for necessary living expenses.

(c) Payment of subsistence expenses shall be decreased by the applicable per-person amount for any period during which the employee is authorized regular travel per diem in accordance with the FTR.
