
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart D - Payments During Evacuation
###### ยง 550.408 Review of accounts; service credit.

(a) The payroll office having jurisdiction over the employee's account shall review each employee's account for the purpose of making adjustments at the earliest possible date after the evacuation is terminated (or earlier if the circumstances justify), after the employee returns to his or her assigned duty station, or when the employee is reassigned officially.

(b) The employee's pay shall be adjusted on the basis of the rates of pay, allowances, or differentials, if any, to which he or she would otherwise have been entitled under all applicable statutes other than section 5527 of title 5, United States Code. Any adjustments in the employee's account shall also reflect advance payments made to the employee under ยง 550.403(a) of this subpart.

(c)(1) After an employee's account is reviewed as required by paragraph (a) of this section, if it is found that the employee is indebted for any part of the advance payment made to him or her or his or her dependent(s) or designated representative, recovery of the indebtedness shall be effected by the payroll office having jurisdiction over the employee's account, unless a waiver of recovery has been approved. Repayment of the indebtedness may be made either in full or in partial payments, as determined by the head of the agency or designated official.

(2) Recovery of indebtedness for advance payment shall not be required when it is determined by the head of the agency or designated official that the recovery would be against equity or good conscience or against the public interest. Findings that formed the basis for waiver of recovery shall be filed in the employee's personnel folder on the permanent side.

(d) For the period or periods covered by any payments made under this subpart, the employee shall be considered as performing active Federal service in his or her position without a break in service.
