
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart H - Back Pay
###### ยง 550.806 Interest computations.

(a)(1) Interest begins to accrue on the date or dates (usually one or more pay dates) on which the employee would have received the pay, allowances, and differentials if the unjustified or unwarranted personnel action had not occurred.

(2) Interest accrual ends at a time selected by the agency that is no more than 30 days before the date of the back pay interest payment. No interest is payable if a complete back pay payment is made within 30 days after any erroneous withdrawal, reduction, or denial of a payment, and the interest accrual ending date is set to coincide with the interest accrual starting date.

(b) In computing the amount of interest due under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall reduce the amount of pay, allowances, and differentials due for each date described in paragraph (a) of this section by an amount determined as follows:

(1) Divide the employee's earnings from other employment during the period covered by the corrective action, as described in ยง 550.805(e)(1) of this part, by the total amount of back pay prior to any deductions;

(2) Multiply the ratio obtained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by the amount of pay, allowances, and differentials due for each date described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The agency shall compute interest on the amount of back pay computed under section 5596 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart before making deductions for erroneous payments, as required by ยง 550.805(e)(2) of this part.

(d) The rate or rates used to compute the interest payment shall be the annual percentage rate or rates established by the Secretary of the Treasury as the overpayment rate under section 6621(a)(1) of title 26, United States Code (or its predecessor statute), for the period or periods of time for which interest is payable.

(e) On each day for which interest accrues, the agency shall compound interest by dividing the applicable interest rate (expressed as a decimal) by 365 (366 in a leap year).

(f) The agency shall compute the amount of interest due, and shall issue the interest payment within 30 days of the date on which accrual of interest ends.

(g) To the extent administratively feasible, the agency shall issue payments of back pay and interest simultaneously. If all or part of the payment of back pay is issued on or before the date on which accrual of interest ends and the interest payment is issued after the payment of back pay is issued, the amount of the payment of back pay shall be subtracted from the accrued amount of back pay and interest, effective with the date the payment of back pay was issued. Interest shall continue to accrue on the remaining unpaid amount of back pay (if any) and interest until the date on which accrual of interest ends.
