
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart J - Compensatory Time Off for Religious Observances
###### ยง 550.1006 Scheduling time to earn and use religious compensatory time off.

(a) The scheduling of time to earn and use religious compensatory time off by an employee is subject to the agency's approval as provided in ยง 550.1005.

(b) For an employee who earns religious compensatory time off prior to using it, religious compensatory time off may be earned up to 13 pay periods in advance of the pay period in which the targeted religious observance commences and must be linked to specific dates and times for future use, as compatible with agency mission requirements.

(c)(1) An employee who uses religious compensatory time off prior to earning it must fulfill his or her obligation to perform overtime work in exchange for the advanced religious compensatory time off within 13 pay periods after the pay period in which he or she used religious compensatory time off, or the agency must take action as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) The 13 pay periods described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are calculated beginning with the first pay period beginning after the date on which the religious compensatory time off was used.

(3) If the employee fails to earn religious compensatory time off within 13 pay periods after taking religious compensatory time off, the agency may take corrective action to eliminate or reduce the negative balance by making a corresponding reduction in the employee's balance of annual leave, credit hours, compensatory time off in lieu of regular overtime pay, compensatory time off for travel, or time-off awards. An agency may determine the order of precedence for applying the various types of paid time off to offset the negative balance. Any negative balance of religious compensatory time off remaining after any charging of these types of paid time off must be resolved by charging the employee leave without pay, which would result in an indebtedness that is subject to the agency's internal debt collection procedures.
