
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart J - Compensatory Time Off for Religious Observances
###### § 550.1007 Accumulation and documentation.

(a) Agencies must keep records of the name and/or description of the religious observance, and the dates, times, and amount of religious compensatory time off each employee earns and uses. An agency must credit religious compensatory time off for work performed on a time-for-time basis, under its time and attendance procedures.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an employee may accumulate only the amount of religious compensatory time off needed to cover an approved absence for a religious observance that has already occurred or to cover an approved absence for a future religious observance. An employee may only accumulate the amount of religious compensatory time off needed to cover the specific dates and times for which the employee has submitted a request for religious compensatory time off under § 550.1004.

(c) If the employee does not use his or her earned religious compensatory time off as planned-

(1) The positive balance of unused compensatory time off may be redirected toward a future religious observance that has been approved, even if that future observance is more than 13 pay periods after the compensatory time off was originally earned (notwithstanding § 550.1006(b)); and

(2) The employee may not earn any additional religious compensatory time off until the retained amount of religious compensatory time off has been used or the need to earn additional religious compensatory time off has been properly established and documented.

(d) Accumulated religious compensatory time off that is not used as planned is not subject to time limits for usage. Unused religious compensatory time off hours remain to the employee's credit until used (subject to the agency's approval under § 550.1005), or the employee's separation or transfer (subject to § 550.1008), as applicable.
