
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart L - Lump-Sum Payment for Accumulated and Accrued Annual Leave
###### § 550.1203 Eligibility.

(a) An agency must make a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave when an employee-(1) Separates or retires from the Federal service;

(2) Dies; or

(3) Transfers to a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, and his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave cannot be transferred, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(b) The Department of Defense (DOD) must make a lump-sum payment to an employee who has unused annual leave that was restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3) when he or she transfers from a DOD installation undergoing closure or realignment to a position in any other department or agency of the Federal Government or moves to a position within DOD not located at an installation undergoing closure or realignment.

(c) An employee who enters on active duty in the armed forces may elect to receive a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave or may request to have the annual leave remain to his or her credit until return from active duty. However, an agency must make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave previously restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) when the employee enters active duty. The agency may not recredit the restored leave when the employee returns to Federal service.

(d) An employee who transfers to a position in a public international organization under 5 U.S.C. 3582 may elect to retain accumulated and accrued annual leave to his or her credit at the time of transfer or receive a lump-sum payment for such annual leave under 5 U.S.C. 3582(a)(4). However, the agency must make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave previously restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) when the employee transfers to the public international organization. The agency may not recredit the leave under these circumstances.

(e) An agency must make a lump-sum payment to an employee who transfers to a position excepted from subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, by 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii) for any annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) upon transfer to an excepted position. However, the agency may not make a lump-sum payment for any annual leave in the employee's regular leave account upon transfer to the excepted position. The agency must hold such annual leave in abeyance for recredit if the employee is subsequently reemployed without a break in service in a position to which his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred. If the employee later becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under the conditions specified in this section, the current employing agency must make a lump-sum payment for the annual leave held in abeyance. The agency must compute the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the pay the employee was receiving immediately before the date of the transfer to the position excepted by 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii). An employee who elects to retain his or her leave benefits upon accepting a Presidential appointment, as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 3392(c), is not entitled to receive a lump-sum payment.

(f) In the case of an employee who transfers to a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, and to which only a portion of his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred, the agency must make a lump-sum payment for any remaining annual leave that cannot be transferred. The agency must compute the lump-sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the pay the employee was receiving immediately before the date of the transfer to the position not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code. This does not apply to an employee transferring to an excepted position covered by paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) An agency must make a lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave to an employee in a missing status (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5561(5)) on or after January 1, 1965, or the employee may elect to have such leave restored in a separate leave account under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(2) upon his or her return to Federal service. The agency must compute the lump sum payment under § 550.1205(b) based on the rate of pay in effect at the time the annual leave became subject to forfeiture under 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), or (c).

(h) An agency may not make a lump-sum payment for accumulated or accrued annual leave to-(1) An employee who transfers between positions covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code;

(2) An employee who transfers to a position not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, but to which all of his or her accumulated and accrued annual leave may be transferred;

(3) An employee who transfers to the government of the District of Columbia or the U.S. Postal Service;

(4) A nonappropriated fund employee of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard who moves without a break in service of more than 3 days to an appropriated fund position within the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, under 5 U.S.C. 6308(b); or

(5) An employee who is concurrently employed in more than one part-time position and who separates from one of the part-time positions. Instead, the former employing agency must transfer the employee's accumulated and accrued annual leave to the current agency (if the part-time positions are in different agencies) or credit the employee's annual leave account in the current position (if the part-time positions are in the same agency).

(6) An employee who elects to retain his or her leave benefits upon accepting a Presidential appointment, as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 3392(c).

(i) An agency must establish a policy for determining when an employee in a continuing employment program with a mixed tour of duty will receive a lump-sum payment for annual leave. The agency may choose to pay an employee a lump-sum payment when he or she is assigned intermittent duty or hold the employee's annual leave in abeyance during intermittent duty and recredit it when the employee returns without a break in service to full-time or part-time employment. If the agency decides to hold the employee's annual leave in abeyance, it must also hold in abeyance the credit for any fractional pay period earned and recredit the annual leave on a pro rata basis, as provided in § 630.204 of this chapter, when the employee returns to full-time or part-time employment. In developing its policy, each agency must consider the likelihood that the employee will return to work, as well as the agency's mission requirements and staffing needs. The agency's policy must ensure that employees are treated in a fair and equitable manner.
