
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart L - Lump-Sum Payment for Accumulated and Accrued Annual Leave
###### ยง 550.1205 Calculating a lump-sum payment.
####### Standardized Regulations

(9) A post allowance in a foreign area under 5 U.S.C. 5924(1) and the(Government Civilians, Foreign Areas) if the employee's official duty station is in the foreign area when he or she becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under ยง 550.1203.

(c) The head of an agency must prescribe regulations or standards for the inclusion of any other kinds of pay authorized in statutes other than title 5, United States Code, in a lump-sum payment. Such regulations or standards must be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 5551, 5552, 6306, and other applicable provisions of law.

(d) A lump-sum payment may not include any other pay not specifically listed in paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) An employee may not earn leave for the period covered by a lump-sum payment.

(f) A lump-sum payment is not subject to deductions for retirement under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System established by chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code, respectively; health benefits under the Federal Employees Health Benefits program established by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code; life insurance under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance program established by chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code; and savings under the Thrift Savings Plan established by subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.

(g) For a reemployed annuitant who becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under ยง 550.1203, the agency must compute the lump-sum payment using the annuitant's pay before any reductions required under ยง 837.303 of this chapter.

(h) A lump-sum payment is subject to garnishment under parts 581 and 582 of this chapter and to administrative offset (for recovery of debts to the Federal Government) under 31 U.S.C. chapter 37.
