
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart L - Lump-Sum Payment for Accumulated and Accrued Annual Leave
###### § 550.1207 Recrediting annual leave.

(a) When an employee pays a full refund to an agency under § 550.1206(a), the agency must recredit to the employee an amount of annual leave equal to the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period. The recredited annual leave is available for use by the employee on and after the date the annual leave is recredited. The agency must recredit annual leave as follows:

(1) When an employee is reemployed in the Federal service in a position covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, the employing agency must recredit an amount of annual leave equal to the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period.

(2) When an employee is reemployed in the Federal service in a position that is not covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, but is covered by a different leave system, the employing agency must recredit to the employee an amount of annual leave representing the days or hours of work (including holidays) remaining between the date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump-sum period, as determined under § 630.501(b) of this chapter. If the unexpired period of leave covers a larger amount of leave than can be recredited under the different leave system, the employee must refund only the amount that represents the leave that can be recredited.

(3) When an employee is reemployed prior to the expiration of the lump-sum leave period, the agency may not recredit to the employee the annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) that was included in a lump-sum payment. The agency must subtract such restored annual leave from the lump-sum leave period before it determines the amount of annual leave to recredit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) Any annual leave the agency recredits to the employee under paragraph (a) of this section is subject at the beginning of the next leave year to the maximum annual leave limitation established by 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, for the position in which the employee is reemployed, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(c) If the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section is more than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed, and the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation was established under 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, the agency must establish the employee's new maximum annual leave limitation on the date of reemployment as a personal leave ceiling equal to the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section. The new maximum annual leave limitation is subject to reduction in the same manner as provided in 5 U.S.C. 6304(c) until the employee's accumulated annual leave is equal to or less than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed.

(d) If the amount of annual leave to be recredited under paragraph (a) of this section is more than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which the employee is reemployed, and the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation was established under an authority other than 5 U.S.C. 6304(a), (b), (c), or (f), as appropriate, the agency must establish the employee's new maximum annual leave limitation on the date of reemployment as a personal leave ceiling equal to the employee's former maximum annual leave limitation. The new maximum annual leave limitation is subject to reduction in the same manner as provided in 5 U.S.C. 6304(c) until the employee's accumulated annual leave is equal to or less than the maximum annual leave limitation for the position in which reemployed.

(e) When an employee is reemployed in a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii), the agency must recredit and hold in abeyance the amount of annual leave that would have been recredited under paragraph (a) of this section. The agency must include unused annual leave in a lump-sum payment when the employee becomes eligible for a lump-sum payment under § 550.1203. If the employee transfers from a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2)(x)-(xiii) to a position covered by subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or to a position under a different formal leave system to which his or her annual leave can be recredited, the employing agency must recredit the annual leave to the employee's credit as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) An agency must document the calculation of an employee's lump-sum payment as provided in § 550.1205(b) so as to permit the subsequent calculation of any refund required under § 550.1206(a) and any recredit of annual leave required under this section.
