
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 550 - PAY ADMINISTRATION (GENERAL)
##### Subpart P - Overtime Pay for Border Patrol Agents
###### Treatment of Overtime Work
####### ยง 550.1622 Circumstances requiring special treatment.
######## Canine care.

(c)(1) For an agent assigned to provide care for a canine and assigned to the Level 1 regular tour of duty border patrol rate of pay, the combined sum of basic pay plus the 25 percent overtime supplement is considered to provide compensation for all canine care. Such an agent must be credited with 1 hour of regularly scheduled overtime work as part of the regular tour of duty on each day containing a part of that tour, without regard to the actual duration of such care or the time and day when such care was actually provided. That leaves the agent with an additional obligation to perform 1 other hour of regularly scheduled overtime work as part of the agent's regular tour of duty on any day containing a part of the employee's tour, if the agent performs work during regular time on that day and thus has obligated overtime hours. An agent may receive no other compensation or compensatory time off for hours of canine care beyond what is specifically provided under this paragraph.

(2) If an agent is generally assigned to provide care for a canine, but is temporarily relieved of that duty for any reason (e.g., no dog available), the agent may not receive the 1-hour credit for canine care on a day when the agent is relieved from providing canine care. If the period during which the agent is temporarily relieved from providing canine care lasts more than two full pay periods, CBP must assign the agent's tour based on the agent's default election for the annual period as provided in ยง 550.1611(c) or (d) unless other circumstances described in paragraph (f) of ยง 550.1611 are applicable. For shorter periods, the Level 1 regular tour of duty assigned based on canine care responsibilities will continue unless the agent requests a different tour based on the agent's default election for the annual period.
