
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart A - Recruitment Incentives
###### § 575.105 Applicability to employees.

(a) A recruitment incentive may be paid under the conditions prescribed in this subpart to an employee who is newly appointed to a position listed in § 575.103 that is likely to be difficult to fill, as determined under § 575.106.

(b)(1) An agency may target groups of similar positions (excluding positions covered by § 575.103(a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(5) or those in similar categories approved by OPM under § 575.103(a)(7)) that have been difficult to fill in the past or that may be difficult to fill in the future and make the required determination to offer a recruitment incentive to newly-appointed employees on a group basis.

(2) An agency must define a targeted category of positions using factors that relate to the conditions described in § 575.106(b). Factors that may be appropriate include the following: occupational series, grade level, distinctive job duties, unique competencies required for the positions, and geographic location.

(3) An agency must review each decision to target a group of similar positions for the purpose of granting a recruitment incentive at least annually to determine whether the positions are still likely to be difficult to fill. An authorized agency official must certify this determination in writing. If an agency determines the positions are no longer likely to be difficult to fill, the agency may not offer a recruitment incentive to newly-appointed employees in that group on a group basis.

(c) An agency may not commence a recruitment incentive service agreement during-

(1) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a relocation incentive under 5 CFR part 575, subpart B, or

(2) A period of employment established under any service agreement required for a retention incentive or for which an employee receives retention incentive payments without a service agreement under 5 CFR part 575, subpart C.
