
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart B - Relocation Incentives
###### ยง 575.210 Service agreement requirements.

(a) Before paying a relocation incentive, an agency must require the employee to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency (or successor agency in the event of a transfer of function) at the new duty station. An authorized agency official must establish the criteria for determining the length of a service period. The service period may not exceed 4 years.

(b)(1) The service agreement must include the commencement and termination dates of the required service period. Except as provided under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the required service period must begin upon the commencement of service at the new duty station. The service period must terminate on the last day of a pay period.

(2) If service at the new duty station does not begin on the first day of a pay period, the agency must delay the service period commencement date so that a required service period begins on the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the commencement of service at the new duty station.

(3) An agency may delay a service agreement commencement date until after the employee completes an initial period of formal training when continued employment in the position is contingent on successful completion of the formal training. The agency must make the determination to pay a relocation incentive before the employee enters on duty in the position, as required by ยง 575.208(a)(3). However, the service agreement must specify that if an employee does not successfully complete the training before the service period commences, the agency is not obligated to pay any portion of the relocation incentive to the employee.

(c) The service agreement must specify the total amount of the incentive, the method of paying the incentive, and the timing and amount of each incentive payment, as established under ยง 575.209.
