
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart C - Retention Incentives
###### ยง 575.309 Payment of retention incentives.

(a) An authorized agency official must determine the criteria for determining the amount of a retention incentive. An agency must establish a single retention incentive rate for each individual or group of employees that is expressed as a percentage of the employee's rate of basic pay. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a retention incentive rate may not exceed-

(1) 25 percent, if authorized for an individual employee; or

(2) 10 percent, if authorized for a group or category of employees.

(b) An agency may pay a retention incentive in-

(1) Installments after the completion of specified periods of service; or

(2) A single lump-sum payment after completion of the full service period.

(c)(1) An installment payment is derived by multiplying the rate of basic pay the employee earned in the installment period by a percentage not to exceed the incentive percentage rate established for the employee under paragraph (a) of this section. For example, an agency establishes a retention incentive percentage rate of 10 percent for an employee. The employee has a service agreement that provides for a retention incentive installment payment after completion of 6 pay periods of service at the full percentage rate established for the employee. The employee earns $15,000 during the 6 pay periods of service ($2,500 biweekly rate of basic pay x 6). Upon completion of that service period, the employee will receive the accrued retention incentive installment payment of $1,500 ($15,000 x .10).

(2) If the retention incentive installment payment percentage is less than the full percentage rate established for the employee under paragraph (a) of this section, any accrued portion of the retention incentive that is not paid as an installment payment during the service period must be paid as part of a final installment payment to the employee after completion of the full service period under the terms of the service agreement established under ยง 575.310. For example, an agency establishes a retention incentive percentage rate of 10 percent for an employee. The employee's service agreement provides for a 7 percent retention incentive installment payment after completion of 6 pay periods of service. The employee earns $15,000 during the 6 pay periods of service ($2,500 biweekly rate of basic pay x 6). Upon completion of that installment period, the employee accrues a retention incentive installment payment of $1,500 ($15,000 x .10). However, under the terms of the service agreement, the employee will receive a $1,050 retention incentive installment payment ($15,000 x .07). The agency must pay the accrued but unpaid portion of the retention incentive payment of $450 ($1,500-$1,050) as a final lump-sum payment upon completion of the full service period required by the service agreement.

(3) An agency may not pay a retention incentive as an initial lump-sum payment at the start of a service period or in advance of fulfilling the service period for which the retention incentive is being paid.
