
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart D - Supervisory Differentials
###### ยง 575.406 Adjustment or termination of supervisory differential.

(a) An agency may establish procedures that allow for adjusting or terminating a supervisory differential at any time the agency determines it is appropriate to do so.

(b) A supervisory differential shall be terminated when the continuing pay of the supervisor (not including the supervisory differential) exceeds the continuing pay of the highest paid subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule.

(c) A supervisory differential shall be reduced or terminated, as appropriate, when the continuing pay of the supervisor (including the supervisory differential) exceeds the continuing pay of the highest paid subordinate whose position is not under the General Schedule by more than 3 percent.

(d) The effective date of a reduction or termination of a supervisory differential under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be not later than 30 calendar days after the date on which the event that necessitates the reduction or termination occurs.

(e) Each determination to adjust a supervisory differential shall be made in writing under procedures established by each agency similar to those established under ยง 575.404 of this part.

(f) The reduction or termination of a supervisory differential may not be appealed. However, the preceding sentence shall not be construed to extinguish or lessen any right or remedy under subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code, or under any of the laws referred to in 5 U.S.C. 2302(d).
