
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart E - Extended Assignment Incentives
###### ยง 575.513 What are the agency's and the employee's obligations when an employee fails to fulfill the terms of a service agreement?

(a) This section does not apply when an employee is involuntarily separated or involuntarily reassigned to a position outside the particular territory, possession, or commonwealth involved, as provided in ยง 575.511 or when an agency unilaterally terminates a service agreement under ยง 575.512.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an employee is indebted to the Federal Government and must repay the paying agency for an appropriate portion of an extended assignment incentive received by the employee if-

(1) The employee fails to complete the period of employment required in his or her service agreement; or

(2) The employee violates any other condition specified in the service agreement that would trigger termination of the agreement.

(c)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period exceeds the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, he or she must repay the excess payment and any additional repayment penalty imposed by the agency under paragraph (e) of this section, except when an authorized agency official waives the requirement to repay the excess amount under paragraph (g) of this section.

(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement and received the full amount of the extended assignment incentive as an initial lump-sum payment. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received 100 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing only 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service period. The excess is 23.1 percent. Therefore, the employee must repay 23.1 percent (84/364) of the incentive. The employee is entitled to keep 76.9 percent of the incentive, unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service agreement under paragraph (e) of this section.

(d)(1) If an employee does not fulfill the terms of the service agreement under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and has received incentive payments whose value as a percentage of the planned total sum of incentive payments for the entire service period is less than or equal to the percentage reflecting the portion of the service period completed by the employee, the employee has no repayment obligation unless the agency imposes an additional repayment penalty under paragraph (e) of this section. The agency may pay an additional incentive payment for some or all of the service completed by the employee if such additional payment is required by the service agreement. The total amount of incentive payments received by the employee may not exceed the prorated share of the planned incentive attributable to completed service.
