
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 575 - RECRUITMENT, RELOCATION, AND RETENTION INCENTIVES; SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS; AND EXTENDED ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVES
##### Subpart E - Extended Assignment Incentives
###### ยง 575.513 What are the agency's and the employee's obligations when an employee fails to fulfill the terms of a service agreement?
####### i.e.,

(2) For example, consider an employee who signed a 364-day (26 pay period) service agreement to receive a total extended assignment payment of $24,501 in two equal installment payments-$12,250.50 at the end of 13 pay periods of completed service and $12,250.50 at the end of the required service period. If the employee voluntarily leaves after 20 pay periods (280 days), the employee will have received only 50 percent of the total extended assignment incentive while completing 76.9 percent (280/364) of the service agreement. The agency may pay the employee an additional amount of up to 26.9 percent of the incentive payment that is attributable to completed service, as allowed under the terms of the service agreement, assuming the agency does not impose an additional repayment penalty for failure to fulfill the service period under paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) An agency may impose an additional repayment penalty on an employee who does not fulfill the terms of a service agreement. This repayment penalty is in addition to any repayment required by paragraph (c) of this section. The specific terms and conditions governing the repayment penalty must be included in the service agreement. For example, an agency may adopt a schedule or formula that provides for varying penalty amounts based on the portion of the service period completed by the employee.

(f) If an employee fails to reimburse the paying agency for the full amount owed under this section, the amount outstanding must be recovered from the employee under the agency's regulations for collection by offset from an indebted Government employee under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, or through the appropriate provisions for debt collection if the individual is no longer a Federal employee.

(g) If an employee received extended assignment incentive payments in excess of the amount that would be attributable to the completed portion of the service period under paragraph (c) of this section, an authorized agency official may waive the requirement to repay the excess amount when, in the judgment of the official, collection of the excess amount would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.
