
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 581 - PROCESSING GARNISHMENT ORDERS FOR CHILD SUPPORT AND/OR ALIMONY
##### Appendix B to Part 581 - List of Agents Designated To Facilitate the Service of Legal Process on Federal Employees

(The agents designated to accept legal process for the garnishment of the remuneration for employment due from the United States are listed in appendix A to part 581. Appendix B to part 581 lists the agents designated to assist in the service of legal process in civil actions pursuant to orders of State courts to establish paternity and to establish or to enforce support obligations by making Federal employees and members of the Uniformed Services available for service of process, regardless of the location of the employee's workplace or of the member's duty station. Agents are listed in appendix B only for those executive agencies where the designations differ from those found in appendix A to part 581.)

The Department of Defense officials identified pursuant to Executive Order 12953, section 302, shall facilitate an employee's or member's availability for service of process. Additionally, these officials shall be responsible for answering inquiries about their respective organization's service of process rules. Such officials are not responsible for actual service of process and will not accept requests to make such service.

Members of the uniformed service, active, reserve, and retired.

Federal civilian employees of the Army, both appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund.

Active duty, reserve, and appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund employees of the Department of the Army employed within the United States.

Appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund Federal civilian employees employed in Panama.

In order to locate, or determine the cognizant command and mailing address of a Navy Member:

In order to obtain assistance in the service of legal process in civil actions pursuant to orders of State courts:

For assistance in service of process on Department of the Navy civilian employees:

For all military and civilian personnel:

The United States Postal Service will cooperate with process servers in the service of process regarding private civil or criminal matters only when service is attempted in person on the subject employee at the employee's place of employment, in accordance with the provisions of 39 CFR 243.2(g). Service of summonses and complaints, in prviate matters, by mail to either the agent or employees at their workstations is not permitted.

The Postal Service agent will attempt to facilitate and assist personnel of child support enforcement agencies within the limitations imposed by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a and relevant Postal regulations. The requester must furnish the name and social security number of the person who is the subject of the inquiry.
