
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 630 - ABSENCE AND LEAVE
##### Subpart C - Annual Leave
###### ยง 630.306 Time limit for use of restored annual leave.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, ยง 630.310(d), or other regulation, annual leave restored under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d) must be scheduled and used not later than the end of the leave year ending 2 years after:

(1) The date of restoration of the annual leave forfeited because of administrative error; or

(2) The date fixed by the agency head, or his or her designee, as the termination date of the exigency of the public business that resulted in forfeiture of the annual leave; or

(3) The date the employee is determined to be recovered and able to return to duty if the leave was forfeited because of sickness.

(b) Annual leave restored to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3) must be scheduled and used within the time limits prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section:

(1) A full-time employee shall schedule and use excess annual leave of 416 hours or less by the end of the leave year in progress 2 years after the date the employee is no longer subject to 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3). The agency shall extend this period by 1 leave year for each additional 208 hours of excess annual leave or any portion thereof.

(2) A part-time employee shall schedule and use excess annual leave in an amount equal to or less than 20 percent of the number of hours in the employee's scheduled annual tour of duty by the end of the leave year in progress 2 years after the date the employee is no longer subject to 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3). The agency shall extend this period by 1 leave year for each additional number of hours of excess annual leave, or any portion thereof, equal to 10 percent of the number of hours in the employee's scheduled annual tour of duty.

(c) The time limits established under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for using restored annual leave accounts shall not apply for the entire period during which an employee is subject to 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3). When coverage under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d)(3) ends, a new time limit shall be established under paragraph (b) of this section for all annual leave restored to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 6304(d).
