
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 630 - ABSENCE AND LEAVE
##### Subpart E - Recredit of Leave
###### ยง 630.502 Sick leave recredit.

(a) When an employee transfers between positions under subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, the agency from which the employee transfers shall certify his or her sick leave account to the employing agency for credit or charge.

(b) Except as provided in ยง 630.407 and in paragraph (c) of this section, an employee who has had a break in service is entitled to a recredit of sick leave (without regard to the date of his or her separation), if he or she returns to Federal employment on or after December 2, 1994, unless the sick leave was forfeited upon reemployment in the Federal Government before December 2, 1994.

(c) Except as provided in ยง 630.407, an employee of the government of the District of Columbia who was first employed by the government of the District of Columbia before October 1, 1987, and who has had a break in service is entitled to a recredit of sick leave (without regard to the date of his or her separation) if he or she returns to Federal employment on or after December 2, 1994, unless the sick leave was forfeited upon reemployment in the Federal Government before December 2, 1994.

(d) When sick leave is transferred between different leave systems under section 6308 of title 5, United States Code, 7 calendar days of sick leave are deemed equal to 5 workdays of sick leave.

(e) An employee who transfers to a position under a different leave system to which he or she can transfer only a part of his or her sick leave is entitled to a recredit of the untransferred sick leave (without regard to the date of the original transfer) if the employee returns to the leave system under which it was earned on or after December 2, 1994.

(f) An employee who transfers to a position to which he or she cannot transfer his or her sick leave is entitled to a recredit of the untransferred sick leave (without regard to the date of the original transfer) if the employee returns to the leave system under which it was earned on or after December 2, 1994.

(g) The recredit of sick leave under this section shall be supported by written documentation available to the employing agency in its official personnel records concerning the employee, the official records of the employee's former employing agency, copies of contemporaneous earnings and leave statement(s) provided by the employee, or copies of other contemporaneous written documentation acceptable to the agency.

(h) The sick leave to be recredited under this section must have been accrued under 5 U.S.C. 6307 or transferred to the employee's credit under 5 U.S.C. 6308 (or the corresponding provisions of prior statutes).
