
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 630 - ABSENCE AND LEAVE
##### Subpart F - Home Leave
###### ยง 630.604 Earning rates.

(a) For each 12 months of service abroad, an employee earns home leave at the following rate:

(1) An employee who accepts an appointment to, or occupies, a position for which the agency has prescribed the requirement that the incumbent accept assignments anywhere in the world as the needs of the agency dictate-15 days.

(2) An employee who is serving with a U.S. mission to a public international organization-15 days.

(3) An employee who is serving at a post for which payment of a foreign or nonforeign (but not a tropical) differential of 20 percent or more is authorized by law or regulation-15 days.

(4) An employee not included in paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section who is serving at a post for which payment of a foreign or territorial (but not a tropical) differential of at least 10 percent but less than 20 percent is authorized by law or regulation-10 days.

(5) An employee not included in paragraph (a) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section-5 days.

(6) An employee included under (a) (1) through (5) of this section whose civilian service abroad is interrupted by a tour of duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, for the duration of such tour-0 (zero) days.

(b) An agency shall credit home leave to an employee's leave account, as earned, in multiples of 1 day.
