
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 213 - EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 213.104 Special provisions for temporary, time-limited, intermittent, or seasonal appointments in Schedule A, B, C, or D.
####### Exceptions to the general limits.

(3)The service limits and restrictions on refilling positions set out in this section do not apply when:

(i) Positions involve intermittent or seasonal work, and employment in the same or a successor position under one or more appointing authorities totals less than 6 months (1,040 hours), excluding overtime, in a service year. The service year is the calendar year that begins on the date of the employee's initial appointment in the agency. Should employment in a position filled under this exception total 6 months or more in any service year, the general limits set out in this section will apply to subsequent extension or reappointment unless OPM approves continued exception under this section. An individual may be employed for training for up to 120 days following initial appointment and up to 2 weeks a year thereafter without regard to the service year limitation.

(ii) Positions are filled under an authority established for the purpose of enabling the appointees to continue or enhance their education, or to meet academic or professional qualification requirements. These include the authorities set out in paragraphs (r) and (s) of ยง 213.3102 and paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of ยง 213.3402, and authorities granted to individual agencies for use in connection with internship, fellowship, residency, or student programs.

(iii) OPM approves extension of specific temporary appointments beyond 2 years (24 months total service) when necessitated by major reorganizations or base closings or other rare and unusual circumstances. Requests based on major reorganization, base closing, restructuring, or other unusual circumstances that apply agencywide must be made by an official at the headquarters level of the Department or agency. Requests involving extension of appointments to a specific position or project based on other unusual circumstances may be submitted by the employing office to the appropriate OPM service center.
