
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 213 - EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Excepted Schedules
###### Schedule A
####### ยง 213.3102 Entire executive civil service.
######## Conditions of appointment.

(4)(i) Individuals whose placement eligibility is based on an appointment without time limit will receive appointments without time limit under this authority. These appointees may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted to any position within the same agency for which they qualify.

(ii) Individuals who are eligible for placement under ยง 353.110 based on a time-limited appointment will be given appointments for a time period equal to the unexpired portion of their previous appointment.

(k) Positions without compensation provided appointments thereto meet the requirements of applicable laws relating to compensation.

(l) Positions requiring the temporary or intermittent employment of professional, scientific, or technical experts for consultation purposes.

(m) [Reserved]

(n) Any local physician, surgeon, or dentist employed under contract or on a part-time or fee basis.

(o) Positions of a scientific, professional, or analytical nature when filled by bona fide members of the faculty of an accredited college or university who have special qualifications for the positions to which appointed. Employment under this provision shall not exceed 130 working days a year.

(p)-(q) [Reserved]

(r) Positions established in support of fellowship and similar programs that are filled from limited applicant pools and operate under specific criteria developed by the employing agency and/or a non-Federal organization. These programs may include: internship or fellowship programs that provide developmental or professional experiences to individuals who have completed their formal education; training and associateship programs designed to increase the pool of qualified candidates in a particular occupational specialty; professional/industry exchange programs that provide for a cross-fertilization between the agency and the private sector to foster mutual understanding, an exchange of ideas, or to bring experienced practitioners to the agency; residency programs through which participants gain experience in a Federal clinical environment; and programs that require a period of Government service in exchange for educational, financial or other assistance. Appointments under this authority may not exceed 4 years.

(s) Positions with compensation fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351-5356 when filled by student-employees assigned or attached to Government hospitals, clinics or medical or dental laboratories. Employment under this authority may not exceed 4 years.

(t) [Reserved]
