
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 213 - EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Excepted Schedules
###### Schedule A
####### ยง 213.3102 Entire executive civil service.
######## Noncompetitive conversion to the competitive service.

(6)(i) An agency may noncompetitively convert to the competitive service an employee who has completed 2 years of satisfactory service under this authority in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12125, as amended by Executive Order 13124, and ยง 315.709 of this chapter, except as provided in paragraph (u)(6)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Time spent on a temporary appointment specified in paragraph (u)(5)(ii) of this section does not count towards the 2-year requirement.

(v)-(w) [Reserved]

(x) Positions for which a local recruiting shortage exists when filled by inmates of Federal, District of Columbia and State (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands) penal and correctional institutions under work-release programs authorized by the Prisoner Rehabilitation Act of 1965, the District of Columbia Work Release Act, or under work-release programs authorized by the States. Initial appointments under the authority may not exceed 1 year. An initial appointment may be extended for one or more periods not to exceed 1 additional year each upon a finding that the inmate is still in a work-release status and that a local recruiting shortage still exists. No person may serve under this authority longer than 1-year beyond the date of that person's release from custody.

(y) [Reserved]

(z) Not to exceed 30 positions of assistants to top-level Federal officials when filled by persons designated by the President as White House Fellows.

(aa) Scientific and professional research associate positions at GS-11 and above when filled on a temporary basis by persons having a doctoral degree in an appropriate field of study for research activities of mutual interest to appointees and their agencies. Appointments are limited to persons referred by the National Research Council under its post-doctoral research associate program, may not exceed 2 years, and are subject to satisfactory outcome of evaluation of the associate's research during the first year.

(bb) Positions when filled by aliens in the absence of qualified citizens. Appointments under this authority are subject to prior approval of the Office except when the authority is specifically included in a delegated examining agreement with the Office.

(cc)-(ee) [Reserved]

(ff) Not to exceed 24 positions when filled in accordance with an agreement between OPM and the Department of Justice by persons in programs administered by the Attorney General of the United States under Public Law 91-452 and related statutes. A person appointed under this authority may continue to be employed under it after he ceases to be in a qualifying program only as long as he remains in the same agency without a break in service.

(gg)-(kk) [Reserved]

(ll) Positions as needed of readers for blind employees, interpreters for deaf employees and personal assistants for handicapped employees, filled on a full time, part-time, or intermittent basis.
