
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 213 - EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Excepted Schedules
###### Schedule B
####### ยง 213.3202 Entire executive civil service.

(a)-(i) [Reserved]

(j) Special executive development positions established in connection with Senior Executive Service candidate development programs which have been approved by OPM. A Federal agency may make new appointments under this authority for any period of employment not exceeding 3 years for one individual.

(k)-(l) [Reserved]

(m) Positions when filed under any of the following conditions:

(1) Appointment at grades GS-15 and above, or equivalent, in the same or a different agency without a break in service from a career appointment in the Senior Executive Service (SES) of an individual who:

(i) Has completed the SES probationary period;

(ii) Has been removed from the SES because of less than fully successful executive performance, failure to be recertified, or a reduction in force; and

(iii) Is entitled to be placed in another civil service position under 5 U.S.C. 3594(b).

(2) Appointment in a different agency without a break in service of an individual originally appointed under paragraph (m)(l).

(3) Reassignment, promotion, or demotion within the same agency of an individual appointed under this authority.

(n) Positions when filled by preference eligibles or veterans who have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after 3 years or more of continuous active military service and who, in accordance with the provisions of Pub.L. 105-339, applied for these positions under merit promotion procedures when applications were being accepted from individuals outside its own workforce. These veterans may be promoted, demoted, or reassigned, as appropriate, to other positions within the agency but would remain employed under this excepted authority as long as there is no break in service. No new appointments may be made under this authority after November 30, 1999.

(o) [Reserved]
