
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 720 - AFFIRMATIVE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Disabled Veterans Affirmative Action Program
###### ยง 720.304 Agency plan.
####### Plan Content.

(e)Disabled veteran affirmative action plans shall, at a minimum, contain:

(1) A statement of the agency's policy with regard to the employment and advancement of disabled veterans, especially those who are 30 percent or more disabled.

(2) The name and title of the official assigned overall responsibility for development and implementation of the action plan.

(3) An assessment of the current status of disabled veteran employment within the agency, with emphasis on those veterans who are 30 percent or more disabled.

(4) A description of recruiting methods which will be used to seek out disabled veteran applicants, including special steps to be taken to recruit veterans who are 30 percent or more disabled.

(5) A description of how the agency will provide or improve internal advancement opportunities for disabled veterans.

(6) A description of how the agency will inform its operating components and field installations, on a regular basis, of their responsibilities for employing and advancing disabled veterans.

(7) A description of how the agency will monitor, review, and evaluate its planned efforts, including implementation at operating component and field installation levels during the period covered by the plan.
