
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 213 - EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Excepted Schedules
###### Schedule C
####### § 213.3302 Temporary transitional Schedule C positions.

(a) An agency may establish temporary transitional Schedule C positions necessary to assist a department or agency head during the 1-year period immediately following a change in presidential administration, when a new department or agency head has entered on duty, or when a new department or agency is created. These positions may be established only to meet legitimate needs of the agency in carrying out its mission during the period of transition associated with such changeovers. They must be of a confidential or policy-determining character and are subject to instructions issued by OPM.

(b) The number of temporary transitional Schedule C positions established by an agency cannot exceed either 50 percent of the highest number of permanent Schedule C positions filled by that agency at any time over the previous 5 years, or three positions, whichever is higher. In the event a new department or agency is created, the number of temporary transitional positions should reasonable in light of the size and program responsibility of that department or agency. OPM may approve an increase in an agency's quota to meet a critical need or in unusual circumstances.

(c) Individual appointments under this authority may be made for 120 days, with one extension of an additional 120 days. They may be deemed provisional appointments for purposes of the regulations set out in parts 351, 831, 842, 870, and 890 of this chapter if they meet the criteria set out in §§ 316.401 and 316.403 of this chapter.

(d) An agency shall notify OPM within 5 working days after a temporary transitional Schedule C position has been encumbered and within 3 working days when it has been vacated. The agency must also submit to OPM a statement signed by the agency head certifying that the position was not created solely or primarily for the purpose of detailing the incumbent to the White House.
