
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 720 - AFFIRMATIVE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart J - Equal Opportunity Without Regard to Politics or Marital Status
###### ยง 720.901 Equal opportunity without regard to politics or marital status.
####### Background Information.

I.A. In 1964 the Congress adopted a basic anti-discrimination policy for Federal employment, stating:

It is the policy of the United States to insure equal employment opportunities for employees without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. [5 U.S.C. 7151]

In 1978, Congress reaffirmed and amended this policy as part of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 [Sec. 310 of Pub. L. 95-454], requiring immediate development of a recruitment program designed to eliminate underrepresentation of minority groups in specific Federal job categories. Section 310 directs the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission:

1. To establish Guidelines proposed to be used for a program designed to eliminate such underrepresentation;

2. To make, in consultation with OPM, initial determinations of underrepresentation which are proposed to be used in this program; and

3. To transmit the determinations made under (2) above to the Executive Agencies, the Office of Personnel Management and the Congress, within 60 days of enactment.

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM)is directed by this amendment:

1. To issue regulations to implement a program under EEOC Guidelines within 180 days after enactment, which shall provide that Executive agencies conduct continuing recruitment programs to carry out the anti-discrimination policy in a manner designed to eliminate underrepresentation in identified categories of civil service;

2. To provide continuing assistance to Federal agencies in carrying out such programs;

3. To conduct a continuing program of evaluation and oversight to determine the effectiveness of such programs;

4. To establish occupational, professional and other groupings within which appropriate recruitment will occur, based upon the determinations of underrepresentation pursuant to these Guidelines; and

5. To report annually to the Congress on this program, not later than January 31 of each year.

Congress further directed that the recruitment program must be administered consistent with provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978.
