
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 720 - AFFIRMATIVE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart J - Equal Opportunity Without Regard to Politics or Marital Status
###### ยง 720.901 Equal opportunity without regard to politics or marital status.
####### Employment and Earnings,,Equal Employment Opportunity Statistics

D. The initial determinations of underrepresentation were based upon average 1977 labor force data from the Current Population Survey published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (January 1978), and 1977 Federal workforce statistics from(publication in process).

The labor force figures are published annually; the Federal employment statistics semiannually. These measures, and any modifications agreed upon by the Commission and OPM, will be updated annually.

Regional and area Federal employment statistics are available from the Office of Personnel Management. The latest reliable local labor force data by race, national origin, and sex is from the 1970 Census. The Commission and OPM will consult on appropriate labor force measures to be used for local analyses.

E. These initial determinations are based upon a preliminary analysis of the data, and may be further refined by the Commission, in consultation with OPM, to include geographic and occupational underrepresentation. It is further recognized that for the purpose of developing regulations, the OPM, in consultation with the Commission, will undertake more specific analyses of data use and applicability necessary to develop programs for the Federal agencies pursuant to Section 7201(a)(2)(C). The OPM may establish criteria for grouping agencies, for treating agency components separately and for grouping grades and pay systems. In addition, OPM may study other available data sources and use other techniques to assure statistically significant findings of underrepresentation. Based upon these studies, OPM may make recommendations to the Commission for future determinations of underrepresentation.
