
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 720 - AFFIRMATIVE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart J - Equal Opportunity Without Regard to Politics or Marital Status
###### ยง 720.901 Equal opportunity without regard to politics or marital status.
####### Procedures for Developing Recruitment Programs.

III.A. The program developed and implemented by OPM under Section 7201 should be designed to result in applicant pools with sufficient qualified members of underrepresented groups. Where the supply of such groups initially appears to be low for specific occupational, professional and other groupings, the program should be designed so that recruitment efforts stimulate interest of underrepresented groups in those occupations where there are realistic projections of Federal employment opportunities.

B. In establishing groupings for determining underrepresentation, OPM should utilize broad occupational categories to the extent possible.

C. The Commission recognizes that OPM's regulations should allow flexibility in development and design of each Federal agency's recruitment program. However, all statistical comparisons must be computed in a manner consistent with the method utilized in II C of this appendix.

The Commission recommends that each agency program meet several minimum requirements. The program should be based on a determination of underrepresentation in the agency's total workforce, in appropriate geographic components; by grade; by broad occupational, professional and other groupings in comparison to the national civilian labor force, according to the criteria developed by OPM under these guidelines.
