
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 720 - AFFIRMATIVE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart J - Equal Opportunity Without Regard to Politics or Marital Status
###### ยง 720.901 Equal opportunity without regard to politics or marital status.
####### Consistency with Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978.

V.A. The Office shall develop regulations and implement this program in consultation with the Commission and with other affected agencies in such manner that their recruitment programs may be incorporated as a consistent and effective element of the agencies' national and regional equal employment opportunity plans. Each agency is required to implement such plans under the direction and guidance of the Commission in accordance with Section 717 of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and Executive Order 12067.

B. Procedures shall be established by OPM and the Commission to assure appropriate consultation in development of the regulations.

C. Pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 1 and to Executive Order 12067 issued thereunder, the Commission will establish procedures to provide appropriate consultation and review of the program on a continuing basis, to maximize its effectiveness and eliminate any duplication, conflict or inconsistency in requirements for equal opportunity programs in the Federal agencies.

D. In preparing its annual report to the Congress pursuant to the Act, OPM should do so in consultation with the Commission.
