
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 734 - POLITICAL ACTIVITIES OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
##### Subpart G - Related Statutes and Executive Orders
###### ยง 734.702 Related statutes and Executive orders.

(a) The prohibition against offering anything of value in consideration of the use or promise of use of influence to procure appointive office (18 U.S.C. 210).

(b) The prohibition against solicitation or acceptance of anything of value to obtain public office for another (18 U.S.C. 211).

(c) The prohibition against intimidating, threatening, or coercing voters in Federal elections (18 U.S.C. 594).

(d) The prohibition against use of official authority to interfere with a Federal election by a person employed in any administrative position by the United States in connection with any activity financed in whole or in part by Federal funds (18 U.S.C. 595).

(e) The prohibition against the promise of employment, compensation, or benefits from Federal funds in exchange for political activity (18 U.S.C. 600).

(f) The prohibition against the deprivation of or threat of deprivation of employment in exchange for political contributions (18 U.S.C. 601).

(g) The prohibition against soliciting political contributions (18 U.S.C. 602).

(h) The prohibition against making certain political contributions (18 U.S.C. 603).

(i) The prohibition against soliciting or receiving assessments, subscriptions, or contributions for political purposes from persons on Federal relief or work relief (18 U.S.C. 604).

(j) The prohibition against disclosing and receiving lists or names of persons on relief for political purposes (18 U.S.C. 605).

(k) The prohibition against intimidating employees to give or withhold a political contribution (18 U.S.C. 606).

(l) The prohibition against soliciting political contributions in navy yards, forts, or arsenals (18 U.S.C. 607).

(m) The prohibition against coercing employees of the Federal Government to engage in, or not to engage in, any political activity (18 U.S.C. 610).

(n) The prohibition against certain personnel practices (5 U.S.C. 2302).

(o) The prohibition against making, requesting, considering, or accepting political recommendations (5 U.S.C. 3303).

(p) The prohibitions against misuse of a Government vehicle (31 U.S.C. 1344).

(q) The requirements and prohibitions stated in the Federal Election Campaign Act (2 U.S.C. 431-455).

(r) The prohibitions against soliciting for gifts to superiors, giving donations for such gifts, and accepting gifts from employees who receive a lower rate of pay (5 U.S.C. 7351).

(s) The prohibitions against soliciting or accepting things of value from specified persons (5 U.S.C. 7353).

(t) The prohibitions and requirements stated in the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) and Executive Order 12674 (54 FR 15159-15162; 3 CFR 1989 Comp. 215-218) as modified by Executive Order 12731 (55 FR 42547-42550; 3 CFR 1990 Comp. 306-311).
