
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### § 831.105 Computation of interest.

(a) The computation of interest is on the basis of 30 days to the month. Interest is computed for the actual calendar time involved in each case, but whenever applicable the rule of average applies.

(b) Interest is allowed on current deductions and deposits at the rate of 4 percent per year to December 31, 1947, and 3 percent per year thereafter, compounded annually, to December 31, 1956. After December 31, 1956, except as provided below, interest is allowed at the rate of 3 percent per year, compounded annually, to date of final separation or transfer to a position that is not covered by the retirement system. After December 31, 1956, interest is not allowed:

(1) When an employee has one year or less of covered service,

(2) For any fractional part of a month in the total service, or

(3) For more than five years' civilian service.

(c) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year through December 31, 1984, and, thereafter, at the yearly rate determined by the Secretary of Treasury, compounded annually, is allowed on voluntary contributions during periods of employment and, after the employee or Member has completed at least 5 years' civilian service, during periods of separation until the beginning date of annuity or death, whichever is earlier. For refund purposes, however, interest on voluntary contributions terminates on the date of the employee's or Member's final separation or on the date of the employee's or Member's last transfer to a position in which he or she is not subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code

(d) For noncontributory service performed before October 1, 1982, and for redeposits of refunds paid on an application received by either the individual's employing agency or OPM before October 1, 1982, interest at the rate of 4 percent per year to December 31, 1947, and at the rate of 3 percent per year thereafter, compounded annually, is charged. Interest is charged on the outstanding balance of a deposit from the midpoint of each service period for which deposit is involved; interest is charged on the outstanding balance of a refund from the date the refund was paid. Interest is charged to the date of deposit or commencing date of annuity, whichever is earlier, except that interest is not charged for any period of separation from the service which began before October 1, 1956.

(e) For noncontributory service performed on or after October 1, 1982, and for redeposits of refunds paid on an application received by the individual's employing agency or OPM on or after October 1, 1982, interest is charged at the rate of 3 percent per year through December 31, 1984, and, thereafter, at the yearly rate determined by the Secretary of Treasury, compounded annually. Interest is charged on the outstanding balance of a deposit from the midpoint of each service period for which deposit is involved; interest is charged on the outstanding balance of a refund from the date the refund was paid. Interest is charged to the date of deposit.

(f) No interest is charged on a deposit for military service if that deposit is made before October 1, 1984, or within 2 years of the date that an individual first becomes an employee or Member under the civil service retirement system, whichever is later. When interest is charged on a deposit for military service, it is charged on the outstanding balance at the rate of 3 percent per year, compounded annually, from October 1, 1984, or 2 years from the date the individual first becomes an employee or Member, whichever is later, through December 31, 1984, and thereafter at the yearly rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(g) For calendar year 1985 and for each subsequent calendar year, OPM will publish a notice in theto notify the public of the interest rate that will be in effect during that calendar year.

(h) Interest under §§ 831.631, 831.632, 831.682, and 831.684 is compounded annually and accrued monthly.

(1) The initial interest on each monthly difference between the reduced annuity rate and the annuity rate actually paid equals the amount of the monthly difference times the difference between (i) 1.06 raised to the power whose numerator is the number of months between the date when the monthly difference in annuity rates occurred and the date when the initial interest is computed and whose denominator is 12; and (ii) 1.

(2) The total initial interest due is the sum of all of the initial interest on each monthly difference computed in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(3) Additional interest on any uncollected balance will be compounded annually and accrued monthly. The additional interest due each month equals the remaining balance due times the difference between (i) 1.06 raised to the 1/12th power; and (ii) 1.

(i)(1) When an individual's civilian service involves several deposit and/or redeposit periods, OPM will normally use the following order of precedence in applying each installment payment against the full amount due:

(i) Redeposits of refunds paid on applications received by the individual's employing agency or OPM on or after October 1, 1982;

(ii) Redeposits of refunds paid on applications received by the individual's employing agency or OPM before October 1, 1982;

(iii) Deposits for noncontributory civilian service performed on or after October 1, 1982; and

(iv) Deposits for noncontributory service performed before October 1, 1982.

(2) If an individual specifically requests a different order of precedence, that request will be honored.

(j) Interest under § 831.662 is compounded annually and accrued monthly.

(1) The initial interest on each monthly difference between the reduced annuity rate and the annuity rate actually paid equals the amount of the monthly difference times the difference between-

(i) The sum of one plus the interest rate set under § 831.105(g) raised to the power whose numerator is the number of months between the date when the monthly difference in annuity rates occurred and the date when the initial interest is computed and whose denominator is 12; and

(ii) 1.

(2) The total initial interest due is the sum of all of the initial interest on each monthly difference computed in accordance with paragraph (j)(1) of this section.

(k) If OPM determines that additional interest was assessed on a deposit for full-time volunteer service as a volunteer or a volunteer leader with the Peace Corps or Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) due to its own administrative error, OPM may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.
