
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart B - Coverage
###### § 831.201 Exclusions from retirement coverage.

(a) The following groups of employees in the executive branch of the Government are excluded from subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code:

(1) Employees serving under appointments limited to one year or less, except annuitants appointed by the President to fill unexpired terms of office on or after January 1, 1976.

(2) Intermittent employees-non-full-time employees without a prearranged regular tour of duty.

(3) Employees whose salary, pay, or compensation on an annual basis is $12 a year or less.

(4) Member or patient employees in Government hospitals or homes.

(5) Employees paid on a piecework basis, except those whose work schedule provides for regular or full-time service.

(6) Intermittent alien employees engaged on work outside the continental limits of the United States.

(7) Employees serving under temporary appointments pending establishment of registers, or pending final determination of eligibility for permanent appointment.

(8) Officers in Charge, clerks in fourth-class post offices, substitute rural carriers, and special-delivery messengers at second- third-, and fourth-class post offices.

(9) Consular agents appointed under authority of section 551 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 (22 U.S.C. 951).

(10) Employees serving under emergency-indefinite appointments not exceeding 5 years.

(11) United States citizens given "overseas limited appointments."

(12) Employees serving under nonpermanent appointments made pursuant to section 1 of Executive Order 10180 of November 13, 1950.

(13) Employees serving under nonpermanent appointments, designated as indefinite, made after January 23, 1955, the effective date of the repeal of Executive Order 10180.

(14) Employees serving under term appointments.

(15) Temporary employees of the Census Bureau employed under temporary limited appointments exceeding 1 year.

(16) Employees serving under limited term, limited emergency and noncareer (designated as indefinite) appointments in the Senior Executive Service.

(17) Health care employees of the National Health Service Corps serving under appointments limited to four years or less in health manpower shortage areas.

(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not deny retirement coverage when:

(1) Employment in an excluded category follows employment subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, without a break in service or after a separation from service of 3 days or less, except in the case of:

(i) An alien employee whose duty station is located in a foreign country; or

(ii) An employee hired by the Census Bureau under a temporary, intermittent appointment to perform decennial census duties.

(2) The employee receives a career or career-conditional appointment under part 315 of this chapter;

(3) The employee is granted competitive status under legislation, Executive order, or civil service rules and regulations, while he or she is serving in a position in the competitive service; or

(4) The employee is granted merit status under 35 CFR chapter I, subchapter E;

(5) The appointment meets the definition of a provisional appointment contained in §§ 316.401 and 316.403 of this chapter;

(6) The employee receives an interim appointment under § 772.102 of this chapter and was covered by CSRS at the time of the separation for which interim relief is required.

(c) Members of the following boards and commissions of the government of the District of Columbia appointed on or after August 13, 1960, are excluded from subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, except that this exclusion does not operate in the case of a member serving on August 13, 1960, who is reappointed on expiration of term without a break in service or after a separation from service of 3 days or less:

(d) The following groups of employees of the government of the District of Columbia, appointed on or after October 1, 1965, are excluded from subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code:

(1) Employees serving under appointments limited to one year or less, except temporary teachers of the District of Columbia public school system.

(2) Intermittent employees-non-full-time employees without a prearranged regular tour of duty.

(3) Employees whose pay on an annual basis is $12.00 per year or less.

(4) Patient or inmate employees in District Government hospitals, homes or penal institutions.

(5) Employees paid on a contract or fee basis.

(6) Employees paid on a piecework basis, except those whose work schedule provides for regular or full-time service.

(7) Employees serving under temporary appointments pending establishment of registers, or pending final determination of eligibility for permanent appointment.

(e) Paragraph (d) of this section does not deny retirement coverage when (1) employment in an excluded category follows employment subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, without a break in service or after a separation from service of 3 days or less, or (2) the employee is granted competitive status under legislation, Executive order, or the Civil Service rules and regulations, while he is serving in a position in the competitive service.
