
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart B - Coverage
###### ยง 831.201 Exclusions from retirement coverage.
####### et seq.

(f) Also excluded are any temporary employees, appointed for one year or less, by the government of the District of Columbia under any program or project established pursuant to the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2701), and summer trainees employed by the Government of the District of Columbia in furtherance of the President's Youth Opportunity Campaign.



(g) Individuals first employed by the government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987, in a position subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, are excluded from such subchapter, except:

(1) Employees of St. Elizabeths Hospital who were covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, before October 1, 1987, appointed by the District of Columbia government on October 1, 1987, as provided in section 6 of Pub. L. 98-621, and deemed employed by the District of Columbia government before October 1, 1987, under section 109 of Pub. L. 100-238;

(2) Effective on and after October 1, 1997, the effective date of section 11246 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 stat. 251, nonjudicial employees of the District of Columbia Courts employed in a position which is not excluded from CSRS under the provisions of this section;

(3) Effective on and after April 1, 1999, the effective date of section 7(e) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, employees of the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia employed in a position which is not excluded from CSRS under the provisions of this section;

(4) The District of Columbia Department of Corrections Trustee, authorized by section 11202 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, and an employee of the Trustee if the Trustee or employee is a former Federal employee appointed with a break in service of 3 days or less, and in the case of an employee of the Trustee is employed in a position which is not excluded from CSRS under the provisions of this section;

(5) The District of Columbia Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee, authorized by section 11232 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(b) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and an employee of the Trustee, if the Trustee or employee is a former Federal employee appointed with a break in service of 3 days or less, and, in the case of an employee of the Trustee, is employed in a position which is not excluded from CSRS under the provisions of this section, and;

(6) Subject to an election under ยง 831.204, employees of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.

(h) Employees who have elected coverage under another retirement system in accordance with part 847 of this chapter are excluded from subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, during that and all subsequent periods of service (including service as a reemployed annuitant).

(i)(1) A former employee of the District of Columbia who is appointed in a Federal position by the Department of Justice, or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency established by section 11233(a) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(c) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, is excluded from CSRS beginning on the date of the Federal appointment, if the employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia under section 3 of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and if the following conditions are met:

(i) The employee is hired by the Department of Justice or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency during the period beginning August 5, 1997, and ending 1 year after the date on which the Lorton Correctional Complex is closed, or 1 year after the date on which the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency assumes its duties, whichever is later; and

(ii) The employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia no later than June 1, 1999 or 60 days after the date of the Federal appointment, whichever is later.

(2) An individual's election to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia remains in effect until the individual separates from service with the Department of Justice or the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency.
