
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 831.301 Military service.
####### Reduction by the amount of survivor benefits payable based on the military service.

(2)(i) In paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, "survivor benefits under a retirement system for members of the uniformed services" means survivor benefits before any offsets for benefits payable from another Federal benefit system except for those payable under title II of the Social Security Act. The amount of the survivor benefit to be deducted will be the amount payable to the current or former spouse and attributable to the decedent's retired or retainer pay for the period of military service to be included in the CSRS survivor annuity. However, the survivor benefit will never be reduced below the amount payable based on the civilian service alone.

(ii) OPM will obtain information on the amount of any monthly survivor benefits payable to each applicant for CSRS current or former spouse annuity. OPM will reduce the CSRS survivor annuity by the monthly military survivor benefit on its commencing date. OPM will not make a subsequent adjustment unless it is necessary to increase or decrease the CSRS survivor benefit because of a change in the amount of military survivor benefits attributable to the period of service or a change in the period of military service to be included in the CSRS annuity when the survivor annuitant becomes eligible for benefits under title II of the Social Security Act.
