
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 831.303 Civilian service.
####### Civilian and military service of an individual affected by an erroneous retirement coverage determination.

(d)(1)An employee or survivor who owed a deposit under section 8411(c)(1)(B) or 8411(f) of title 5, United States Code (FERS rules) for:

(i) Civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions, or

(ii) Military service performed after December 31, 1956, will receive credit for the service without payment of the deposit if, because of an erroneous retirement coverage determination, the service is subsequently credited under chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code (CSRS rules).

(2)(i) The beginning monthly rate of annuity payable to a retiree whose annuity includes service credited under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and service creditable under CSRS rules that would not be creditable under FERS rules is reduced by an amount equal to the CSRS deposit owed, or unpaid balance thereof, divided by the present value factor for the retiree's age (in full years) at the time of retirement. The result is rounded to the next highest dollar amount, and is the monthly actuarial reduction amount.

(ii)(A) The beginning monthly rate of annuity payable to a survivor whose annuity includes service credited under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is reduced by an amount equal to the CSRS deposit owed, or unpaid balance thereof, divided by the present value factor for the survivor's age (in full years) at the time of death. The result is rounded to the next highest dollar amount, and is the monthly actuarial reduction amount.

(B) The survivor annuity is not reduced if the employee annuity was reduced under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) For the purpose of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term "present value factor" has the same meaning as defined in ยง 831.603 and "time of retirement" has the same meaning as defined in ยง 831.2202.
