
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart F - Survivor Annuities
###### Changes of Survivor Elections
####### § 831.622 Changes of election after final adjudication.

(a) Except as provided in section 8339 (j) or (k) of title 5, United States Code, or §§ 831.682, 831.684, 831.685, or paragraph (b) of this section, an employee or Member may not revoke or change the election or name another survivor later than 30 days after the date of the first regular monthly payment.

(b)(1) Except as provided in § 831.613 and paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, a retiree who was married at the time of retirement and has elected a self-only annuity, or a partially reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, or a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity, or an insurable interest annuity may elect, no later than 18 months after the time of retirement, an annuity reduction or an increased annuity reduction to provide a current spouse annuity.

(2) A current spouse annuity based on an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section cannot be paid if it will, when combined with any former spouse annuity or annuities that are required by court order, exceed the maximum survivor annuity permitted under § 831.641.

(3) To make an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the retiree must pay, in full, a deposit determined under § 831.662, plus interest, at the rate provided under § 831.105(g), no later than 18 months after the time of retirement.

(4) If a retiree makes an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and is prevented from paying the deposit within the 18-month time limit because OPM did not send him or her a notice of the amount of the deposit at least 30 days before the time limit expires, the time limit for making the deposit will be extended to 30 days after OPM sends the notice of the amount of the deposit.

(5) An election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, cancels any spousal consent under § 831.611 to the extent of the election.

(6) An election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is void unless it is filed with OPM before the retiree dies.

(7) If a retiree who had elected a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity or former spouse annuities makes an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section which would cause the combined current spouse annuity and former spouse annuity (or annuities) to exceed the maximum allowed under § 831.641, the former spouse annuity (or annuities) must be reduced to not exceed the maximum allowable under § 831.641.
