
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart F - Survivor Annuities
###### Eligibility
####### ยง 831.644 Remarriage.

(a)(1) If a recipient of a current spouse annuity remarried before November 8, 1984, the current spouse annuity terminates on the last day of the month before the recipient remarried before attaining age 60.

(2) If a recipient of a current spouse annuity remarries on or after November 8, 1984, a current spouse annuity terminates on the last day of the month before the recipient remarries before attaining age 55.

(b) A former spouse annuity or eligibility for a future former spouse annuity terminates on the last day of the month before the month in which the former spouse remarries before attaining age 55.

(c) If a current spouse annuity is terminated because of remarriage of the recipient, the annuity is reinstated on the day of the termination of the remarriage by death, annulment, or divorce if-

(1) The surviving spouse elects to receive this annuity instead of a survivor benefit to which he or she may be entitled, under CSRS or another retirement system for Government employees, by reason of the remarriage; and

(2) Any lump sum paid on termination of the annuity is repaid (in a single payment or by withholding payment of the annuity until the amount of the lump sum has accrued).

(d) (1) If present or future entitlement to a former spouse annuity is terminated because of remarriage before age 55, the entitlement will not be reinstated upon termination of the remarriage by death or divorce.

(2) If present or future entitlement to a former spouse annuity is terminated because of remarriage before age 55, the entitlement will not be reinstated upon annulment of the remarriage unless-

(i) The decree of annulment states that the marriage is without legal effect retroactively from the marriage's inception; and

(ii) The former spouse's entitlement is based on section 4(b)(1)(B) or section (4)(b)(4) of Pub. L. 98-615.

(3) If a retiree who is receiving a reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity and who has remarried that former spouse (before the former spouse attained age 55) dies, the retiree will be deemed to have elected to continue the reduction to provide a current spouse annuity unless the retiree requests (or has requested) in writing that OPM terminate the reduction.
