
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart F - Survivor Annuities
###### Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
####### § 831.682 Election by a retiree who retired before May 7, 1985, to provide a former spouse annuity.

(a) A retiree who retired before May 7, 1985, including a retiree receiving a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, may elect a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.

(b) The election should be made by letter addressed to OPM. The election must-

(1) Be in writing; and

(2) Agree to pay any deposit due under paragraph (c) of this section; and

(3) Be signed by the retiree; and

(4) Be filed with OPM before September 8, 1987.

(c)(1)(i) If a retiree who is receiving an insurable interest annuity elects a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity under this section to benefit the same person, the insurable interest annuity terminates. A retiree who is receiving an insurable interest annuity at the time that an annuity is elected under this section does not owe any further deposit.

(ii) If a retiree who had been receiving an insurable interest annuity, which was terminated to elect a reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity for a spouse acquired after retirement, elects to provide a former spouse annuity for a former spouse who was the beneficiary of the insurable interest annuity, the retiree must deposit an amount equal to the sum of the monthly differences between the self-only annuity and a fully reduced annuity or partially reduced annuity (with the same base as elected to provide the former spouse annuity) from the date the insurable interest annuity terminated, plus 6 percent annual interest, computed under § 831.105, from the date to which each monthly difference is attributable.

(2) A retiree who elects a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity under this section, to provide a former spouse annuity for a former spouse for whom the retiree had elected (during the marriage to that former spouse) a reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, must deposit an amount equal to the sum of the monthly differences between the self-only annuity and the amount of annuity that would have been in effect had a fully reduced annuity or partially reduced annuity (with the same base as elected to provide the former spouse annuity) been in effect continuously since the time of retirement, plus 6 percent annual interest, computed under § 831.105, from the date to which each monthly difference is attributable, except that the retiree will not be charged for any period during which the survivor reduction was in effect for that former spouse.

(3) A retiree who elects a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity under this section, and is not covered under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, must deposit an amount equal to the sum of the monthly difference between the self-only annuity and a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity (with the same base as elected to provide the former spouse annuity) since the time of retirement, plus 6 percent annual interest, computed under § 831.105, from the date to which each monthly difference is attributable.

(d) If a retiree who is receiving a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity elects a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity under this section to provide a former spouse annuity, the annuity will be reduced separately to provide for the current and former spouse annuities. Each separate reduction will be computed based on the self-only annuity, and the separate reductions are cumulative.

(e)(1) In response to a retiree's inquiry about providing a former spouse annuity under this section, OPM will send an application form. The application form will include a notice to retirees that filing the application constitutes an official election which cannot be revoked after 30 days after the annuity check in which the annuity reduction first appears.

(2) If the retiree returns the application electing a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity under this section, OPM will notify the retiree of-

(i) The rate of the fully reduced annuity or partially reduced annuity; and

(ii) The rate of the potential former spouse annuity; and

(iii) The amount of the deposit, including interest, that is due as of the date that the annuity reduction is scheduled to begin; and

(iv) The amount and duration of installment payments if no deposit is made.

(3) The notice under paragraph (e)(2) of this section will advise the retiree that the deposit will be collected in installments under § 831.665, unless lump-sum payment is made within 60 days from the date of the notice.

(4) OPM will reduce the annuity and begin collection of the deposit in installments effective with the first check payable more than 60 days after the date on the notice required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(f)(1) A retiree who made an election under this section prior to September 9, 1986 may modify that election by designating a lesser portion of the retiree's annuity be used as the base for the annuity reduction and the former spouse annuity.

(2) Any modification under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be in writing and received in OPM no later than the date provided for applications in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(g) The annuity reduction resulting in a fully reduced annuity or partially reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity under this section terminates on the first day of the month after the former spouse remarries before age 55 or dies.

(h) A former spouse is eligible to receive only one survivor annuity based on the service of one employee or Member.

(i) If a former spouse is entitled to a former spouse annuity based on an election under this section, but absent that election would have been entitled to a former spouse annuity under § 831.683 (i.e., filed a timely application as well as meeting all other requirements), the amount of the former spouse annuity payable will equal 55 percent of the annuity of the retiree on whose service the survivor annuity is based.
