
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart F - Survivor Annuities
###### Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
####### ยง 831.684 Second chance elections to provide survivor benefits.

(a) A married retiree who retired before May 7, 1985, and is not currently receiving a fully or partially reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity may elect a fully or partially reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity for a spouse acquired after retirement if the following conditions are met:

(1) (i) The retiree was married at the time of retirement and did not elect a survivor annuity at that time; or

(ii) The retiree failed to elect a fully or partially reduced annuity within 1 year after a post-retirement marriage that occurred before November 8, 1984, and the retiree attempted to elect a fully or partially reduced annuity after the time limit expired and that request was disallowed as untimely.

(2) The retiree applies for a fully or partially reduced annuity under this section before November 9, 1985.

(3) The retiree agrees to pay the amount due under paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Applications must be filed on the form prescribed by OPM, except filing the form is excused when the retiree dies before filing the required form if:

(1) The retiree made a written request, after November 8, 1984, to elect a fully or partially reduced annuity under this section, and

(2) The retiree was denied the opportunity to file the required form because the retiree, without fault, did not receive the form in sufficient time for the retiree to be reasonably expected to complete the form before death.

(c)(1) In response to a retiree's inquiry about providing a current spouse annuity under this section, OPM will send an application form. This application will include instructions to assist the retiree in estimating the amount of reduction in the annuity to provide the current spouse annuity and the amount of the required deposit. The application form will include a notice to retirees that filing the application constitutes an official election which cannot be revoked after 30 days after the annuity check in which the annuity reduction first appears.

(2) If the retiree returns the application electing a fully or partially reduced annuity under this section, OPM will notify the retiree of-

(i) The rate of the fully reduced annuity; and

(ii) The rate of the potential current spouse annuity; and

(iii) The amount of the deposit, including interest, that is due as of the date that the annuity reduction is scheduled to begin; and

(iv) The amount and duration of installment payments if no deposit is made.

(3) The notice under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will advise the retiree that the deposit will be collected in installments under ยง 831.665, unless lump-sum payment is made within 60 days from the date of this notice.

(4) OPM will reduce the annuity and begin collection of the deposit in installments effective with the first check payable more than 60 days after the date on the notice required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(d) The retiree must state on the application form whether the application is made under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. If the application is made under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the retiree must prove that he or she had attempted to elect a fully reduced annuity and that OPM rejected that application because it was filed too late. The proof must consist of a copy of OPM's letter rejecting the previous election as untimely filed or an affidavit swearing or affirming that he or she made an untimely application which OPM rejected. The affidavit is sufficient documentation to provide proof of the retiree's attempt to elect a reduced annuity, unless the record contains convincing evidence to rebut the certification.

(e) A retiree who elects to provide a current spouse annuity under this section must agree to pay a deposit equal to the difference between the amount of annuity actually paid to the retiree and the amount of annuity that would have been paid if a fully reduced annuity were being paid continuously since the time of retirement, plus 6 percent annual interest, computed under ยง 831.105, from the date when each difference occurred.

(f) The rate of a survivor annuity under this section will be computed under the laws in effect at the time of the retiree's separation from the Federal service.
