
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart F - Survivor Annuities
###### Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
####### § 831.685 Changes in elections to provide a current spouse annuity by a retiree who retired before May 28, 1986.

(a) Except as provided in § 831.613 and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a retiree who retired before May 28, 1986, was married at the time of retirement, and at the time of retirement did not elect a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity may elect a fully reduced annuity or a greater partially reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.

(b)(1) An election under paragraph (a) of this section may be made only by a retiree who is married to the same spouse to whom the retiree was married at the time of retirement.

(2) A current spouse annuity based on an election under paragraph (a) of this section cannot be paid if it will, when combined with any former spouse annuity or annuities that are required by court order, exceed the maximum survivor annuity permitted under § 831.641.

(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, to make an election under paragraph (a) of this section, the retiree must pay the deposit computed under § 831.662, in full, no later than November 28, 1987.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, failure to pay the deposit, in full, before November 29, 1987, voids an election made under paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) If a retiree makes an election under paragraph (a) of this section and is prevented from paying the deposit within the 18-month time limit because OPM did not send him or her a notice of the amount of the deposit at least 30 days before the time limit expires, the time limit for making the deposit will be extended to 30 days after OPM sends the notice of the amount of the deposit.

(5) For a retiree whose annuity commenced on or after May 7, 1985, an election under paragraph (a) of this section cancels any spouse consent under § 831.611 to the extent of the election.

(c) If a retiree who had elected a fully reduced annuity or a partially reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity makes an election under paragraph (a) of this section that would cause the combined current spouse annuity and former spouse annuity (or annuities) to exceed the maximum allowed under § 831.641, the former spouse annuity (or annuities) must be reduced to conform with that allowed under § 831.641.

(d) An election under paragraph (a) of this section is void unless it is filed with OPM before the retiree dies.
