
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart J - CSRS Offset
###### ยง 831.1006 Offset from disability or survivor annuity.

(a) OPM will reduce the disability annuity (an annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8337) of an individual who performed Federal service, if the individual is (or would on proper application be) entitled to disability payments under section 223 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 423).

(b)(1) Before an application for disability retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8337 can be finally approved in the case of an employee who has Federal service, the applicant must provide OPM with-

(i) Satisfactory evidence that the applicant has filed an application for disability insurance benefits under section 223 of the Social Security Act; or

(ii) An official statement from the Social Security Administration that the individual is not insured for disability insurance benefits as defined in section 223(c)(1) of the Social Security Act.

(2) A disability retirement application under 5 U.S.C. 8337 will be dismissed when OPM is notified by the Social Security Administration that the application referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section has been withdrawn unless the evidence described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section has been provided.

(c) OPM will reduce a survivor annuity (an annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341) based on the service of an individual who performed Federal service, if the survivor annuitant is entitled, or on proper application would be entitled, to survivor benefits under section 202 (d), (e), or (f) (relating to children's, widow's, and widowers' benefits, respectively) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 202 (d), (e), or (f)).

(d) The reduction required under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section begins (or is reinstated) on the 1st day of the month during which the disability or survivor annuitant-

(1) Is entitled to disability or survivor annuity under CSRS; and

(2) Is entitled, or on proper application would be entitled, to disability or survivor benefits under the Social Security Act provisions mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, respectively.

(e) The reduction under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section will be computed and adjusted in a manner consistent with the provisions of ยง 831.1005(c) through (e).

(f) A reduction under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section stops on the date entitlement to the disability or survivor benefits under title II of the Social Security Act terminates. In the case of a disability or survivor annuitant who has not made proper application for the Social Security benefit, the reduction under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section stops on the date entitlement to such disability or survivor benefits would otherwise terminate. If a Social Security benefit is reduced under any provision of the Social Security Act, even if reduced to zero, entitlement to that benefit is not considered to have terminated.

(g) OPM will accept the determination or certification of the Social Security Administration, submitted in a form prescribed by OPM, concerning entitlement to Social Security disability or survivor benefits and the beginning and ending dates thereof.

(h) If a disability annuitant who is not entitled to disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act subsequently becomes entitled to old-age benefits under the Social Security Act, a reduction under ยง 831.1005 will begin on the 1st day of the month during which the annuitant becomes entitled, or on proper application would be entitled, to Social Security old-age insurance benefits.
