
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart L - Disability Retirement
###### ยง 831.1203 Basic requirements for disability retirement.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following conditions must be met for an individual to be eligible for disability retirement:

(1) The individual must have completed at least 5 years of civilian service that is creditable under the Civil Service Retirement System.

(2) The individual must, while employed in a position subject to the Civil Service Retirement System, have become disabled because of a medical condition, resulting in a service deficiency in performance, conduct, or attendance, or if there is no actual service deficiency, the disabling medical condition must be incompatible with either useful and efficient service or retention in the position.

(3) The disabling medical condition must be expected to continue for at least 1 year from the date the application for disability retirement is filed.

(4) The employing agency must be unable to accommodate the disabling medical condition in the position held or in an existing vacant position.

(5) An application for disability retirement must be filed with the employing agency before the employee or Member separates from service, or with the former employing agency or the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) within 1 year thereafter. This time limit can be waived only in certain instances explained in ยง 831.1204.

(b) A National Guard technician who is retiring under the special provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8337(h) is not required to meet the conditions given in paragraphs (a) (2), (3), and (4) of this section. Instead, the individual must be disabled for membership in the National Guard or for the military grade required to hold his or her position and meet the other eligibility requirements under 5 U.S.C. 8337(h)(2).
