
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart L - Disability Retirement
###### ยง 831.1209 Termination of disability annuity because of restoration to earning capacity.
####### Job-connected expenses incurred because of the disabling condition may be deducted from income.

(g)(1) Job-connected expenses deductible from income for purposes of determining earning capacity are those expenses that are primarily for and essential to the annuitant's occupation or business and are directly connected with or result from the disability for which the disability annuity was allowed.

(2) The determination of whether a job-connected expense may be deducted from income is governed by the following considerations:

(i) The expense must be directly attributable to the disability and must be one which would not have been incurred in the absence of the annuitant working in his or her business or occupation. Expenses incurred for the preservation of the annuitant's health, alleviation of his or her physical or mental discomfort, or other expenses of an employed person cannot be deducted.

(ii) The disability must be of such severity that it requires the annuitant to use special means of transportation, services, or equipment to perform the duties of the occupation or business. Examples of such disabilities include blindness, paraplegia, multiple sclerosis, and cerebral hemorrhage. Claims involving transportation or equipment may be deducted only in the amount normally allowed for business expenses or as depreciation by the Internal Revenue Service for Federal income tax purposes.

(iii) Claims involving services performed by a family member or other individual directly employed by the annuitant may be deducted only if a true employer-employee relationship exists between the annuitant and the employed individual, and the amount claimed as an expense does not exceed the local market rate of payment to individuals who provide similar services. It is the responsibility of the annuitant to provide evidence demonstrating that an employer-employee relationship exists, and what the local market rate is for such services. For the purpose of this paragraph, to establish that a true employer-employee relationship exists, the annuitant must provide evidence that all statutorily mandated employment requirements are met, including (but not limited to) income tax withholdings, FICA tax deductions and payments, and unemployment insurance. If the annuitant fails to provide evidence of the local market rate for such services, payments may be deducted only if the amount claimed does not exceed the Federal minimum hourly rate in effect on December 31 of the calendar year in which claimed. Absent evidence that it is customary and regular practice in the local labor market to work more hours per week, payment may not be deducted for services provided by an individual in excess of 40 hours a week.

(3) A job-connected expense can be deducted only in the calendar year in which paid.

(4) Claims for items used for both personal and job-related purposes may be deducted only by the prorated amount attributable to the job-related use.

(5) A job-connected expense may not be deducted from income from self-employment if the expense has already been deducted as a business expense.

(6) It is the responsibility of the annuitant claiming job-connected expense to provide adequate documentation to substantiate the amount claimed. Adequate documentation will generally include the following information:

(i) Written recommendation of a physician, vocational rehabilitation specialist, occupational health resource specialist, or other similar professional specialist that the retiree should use the transportation, services, or equipment;

(ii) A description of the item and an explanation of its use by the annuitant in the performance of his or her occupation or business;

(iii) A copy of the receipt of purchase, bill of sale, or leasing agreement for the item claimed with the date, duration of the agreement, and agreed upon price clearly specified;

(iv) A complete supporting explanation of how the amount claimed for the job-connected expense has been calculated; and

(v) An explanation of the circumstances and calculation of the prorated cost of the item if used for both personal and business use.
