
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart L - Disability Retirement
###### ยง 831.1211 Reinstatement of disability annuity.

(a) When a disability annuity stops, the individual must again prove that he or she meets the eligibility requirements in order to have the annuity reinstated.

(b) When a recovered disability annuitant under age 62 whose annuity was terminated because he or she was found recovered on the basis of medical evidence (ยง 831.1208(b)), is not reemployed in a position subject to civil service retirement coverage, and, based on the results of a current medical examination, OPM finds that the individual's medical condition has worsened since the finding of recovery and that the original disability on which retirement was based has recurred, OPM will reinstate the disability annuity. The right to the reinstated annuity begins with the date of the medical examination showing that the disability recurred.

(c) OPM will reinstate the disability annuity of a recovered disability annuitant under age 62 whose annuity was terminated because he or she was found recovered on the basis of Federal reemployment (ยง 831.1208(c)) when-

(1) The results of a current medical examination show that the disabling medical condition that was the basis of the disability retirement continues to exist; and

(2) Within 1 year after the date of reemployment, this medical condition has again caused the individual to be unable to provide useful and efficient service, and the employee has been-

(i) Separated and not reemployed in a position subject to civil service retirement coverage; or

(ii) Placed in a position that results in a reduction in grade or pay below the grade from which the individual retired, or in a change to a non-permanent position. The right to the reinstated annuity begins with the date of the medical examination showing that the disabling medical condition continues to exist, but not earlier than the first day after separation, or the effective date of the placement in the position which results in a reduction in grade or pay or change to a non-permanent position.

(d) When a recovered disability annuitant under age 62 whose annuity was terminated because he or she was found recovered on the basis of a voluntary request (ยง 831.1208(e)), is not reemployed in a position subject to civil service retirement coverage, and, based on the results of a current medical examination, OPM finds that the disability has recurred, OPM will reinstate the disability annuity. The right to the reinstated annuity begins with the date of the medical examination showing that the disability recurred, but not earlier than 1 year before the date the request for reinstatement is received by OPM.

(e) When a disability annuitant whose earning capacity has been restored but who is not reemployed in a position in which he or she is subject to civil service retirement coverage, and who (except in the case of a National Guard technician whose annuity was awarded under 5 U.S.C. 8337(h)), has not recovered from the disability for which retired, loses his or her earning capacity, as determined by OPM, before reaching age 62, OPM will reinstate the disability annuity. The reinstated annuity is payable from January 1 of the year following the calendar year in which earning capacity was lost. Earning capacity is lost if, during any calendar year, the individual's income from wages or self-employment or both is less than 80 percent of the current rate of basic pay of the position held at retirement.

(f) A reinstated annuity is the same type as the original annuity and is paid at the rate of annuity to which the annuitant was entitled on the date his or her disability annuity was last discontinued.

(g) Reinstatement of the disability annuity ends the right to any other annuity based on the same service, unless the annuitant makes a written election to receive the other annuity instead of the disability annuity.

(h) When OPM reinstates an employee's disability annuity, the agency must offset the employee's pay by the amount of annuity allocable to the period of employment, unless the annuitant is exempted from this requirement under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8344(i). The offset begins on the date of OPM's determination of eligibility for reinstatement. OPM must reduce any retroactive payment of annuity for a period of employment with an agency before that date by the amount of pay earned during that period.

(i) When an individual's annuity is terminated upon reemployment (subject to subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code), OPM must determine the individual's future annuity rights under the law in effect at the date of his or her subsequent separation. If, upon separation from such reemployment, the individual does not meet the eligibility requirements under subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code, for title to annuity based on such separation, OPM will resume payment of the terminated annuity at the rate last payable, unless payment is otherwise barred.
