
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart O - Allotments From Civil Service Annuities
###### ยง 831.1521 Limitations.

(a) The amount of any allotment may not be less than one dollar ($1) and, in the absence of compelling circumstances, shall be in whole dollars.

(b) The total amount of any allotment(s) may not exceed the net monthly annuity due the allotter.

(c) An annuitant may make only one allotment payable to the same allottee at the same time and may make no more than a total of two allotments.

(d) Payment of an allotment shall be discontinued when the allotter's annuity payments are terminated or suspended by OPM.

(e) Allotments shall be disbursed on one of the regularly designated paydays of the allotter in accordance with OPM's agreement with the allottee.

(f) Allotters shall agree that OPM shall be held harmless for any authorized allotment request made by an allottee in accordance with the allottee's agreement with OPM.

(g) Allotters shall agree that disputes regarding any authorized allotment shall be a matter between the allotter and the allottee.

(h) The total number of allottees shall be limited to twenty (20), with first preference given to those organizations participating in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Thereafter, preference shall be based on the date of application and the number of annuitants who have completed allotment authorizations.

(i) OPM, in its discretion, shall recover from the allottee, the incremental costs of making allotments.

(j) OPM, in its sole discretion, may terminate an allottee's participation in the allotment program described by this subpart at any time in accordance with its agreement with the allottee.
