
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart Q - Phased Retirement
###### Returning to Regular Employment Status
####### ยง 831.1721 Ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
######## Election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.

(a)(1) A phased retiree may elect, with the permission of an authorized agency official, to end phased employment at any time to return to regular employment status. The election is deemed to meet the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 8336a(g) regardless of the employee's work schedule. The employee is not subject to any working percentage limitation (i.e., full-time, 50 percent of full-time, or any other working percentage) upon electing to end phased retirement status.

(2) To elect to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status, a phased retiree must-

(i) Submit to the authorized agency official, on a form prescribed by OPM, a written and signed request to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status; and

(ii) Obtain the signed written approval of the authorized agency official for the request.

(3) An employee may cancel an approved election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status by submitting a signed written request to the agency and obtaining the approval of an authorized agency official before the effective date of return to regular employment status.

(4) The employing agency must notify OPM that the employee's phased retirement status has ended by submitting to OPM a copy of the completed election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status within 15 days of its approval.
