
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart Q - Phased Retirement
###### Returning to Regular Employment Status
####### § 831.1723 Effect of ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.

(a) After phased retirement status ends under § 831.1722, the employee's rights under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, are determined based on the law in effect at the time of any subsequent separation from service.

(b) After an individual ends phased retirement status to return to regular employment status, for the purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, at the time of the subsequent separation from service, the phased retirement period will be treated as if it had been a period of part-time employment with the work schedule described in § 831.1712(a)(1) and (b). The part-time proration adjustment for the phased retirement period will be based upon the individual's officially established part-time work schedule, with no credit for extra hours worked. In determining the individual's deemed rate of basic pay during the phased retirement period, only basic pay for hours within the individual's officially established part-time work schedule may be considered. No pay received for other hours during the phased retirement period may be included as part of basic pay for the purpose of computing retirement benefits, notwithstanding the normally applicable rules.

(c) The restrictions in §§ 831.1751 and 831.1752 regarding when an individual must complete a deposit for civilian service, a redeposit for civilian service that ended on or after March 1, 1991, or a deposit for military service do not apply when a phased retiree ends phased retirement status to return to regular employment status under this section.

(d) When a phased retiree whose phased retirement annuity was subject to an actuarial reduction for unpaid redeposit service, in accordance with § 831.303(c) and (d), ends phased retirement status to return to regular employment status, the annuity the individual becomes entitled to at retirement is subject to the actuarial reduction, increased by cost-of-living adjustments under § 831.1743(d). For the purpose of applying the provisions of § 831.1743(d) under this paragraph, cost-of-living adjustments are applied through the annuity commencing date.
