
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart Q - Phased Retirement
###### Computation of Phased Retirement Annuity at Phased Retirement and Composite Retirement Annuity at Full Retirement
####### § 831.1743 Cost-of-living adjustments.

(a) The phased retirement annuity under § 831.1741 is increased by cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8340.

(b) A composite retirement annuity under § 831.1742 is increased by cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8340, except that 5 U.S.C. 8340(c)(1) does not apply.

(c)(1) For the purpose of computing the amount of phased retirement annuity used in the computation under § 831.1742(a)(1), the initial cost-of-living adjustment applied is prorated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8340(c)(1).

(2) If the individual enters full retirement status on the same day as the effective date of a cost-of-living adjustment (usually December 1st), that cost-of-living adjustment is applied to increase the phased retirement annuity used in the computation under § 831.1742(a)(1).

(d)(1) For the purpose of computing the actuarial reduction used in the computation under § 831.1742(d)(1), the initial cost-of-living adjustment applied is prorated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8340(c)(1).

(2) If the individual enters full retirement status on the same day as the effective date of a cost-of-living adjustment (usually December 1st), that cost-of-living adjustment is applied to increase the actuarial reduction used in the computation under § 831.1742(d)(1).

(3) When applying each cost-of-living adjustment to the actuarial reduction used in the computation under § 831.1742(d)(1), the actuarial reduction is rounded up to the next highest dollar.
