
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart Q - Phased Retirement
###### Opportunity of a Phased Retiree To Pay a Deposit or Redeposit for Civilian or Military Service
####### § 831.1751 Deposit for civilian service for which no retirement deductions were withheld and redeposit for civilian service for which retirement deductions were refunded to the individual.

(a)(1) Any deposit an employee entering phased retirement status wishes to make for civilian service for which no retirement deductions were withheld (i.e., "non-deduction" service) must be paid within 30 days from the date OPM notifies the employee of the amount of the deposit, during the processing of the employee's application for phased retirement. The deposit amount will include interest under § 831.105, computed to the effective date of phased retirement.

(2) No deposit payment may be made by the phased retiree when entering full retirement status.

(3) As provided under § 831.1741(a)(1), for the computation of phased retirement annuity, the amount of any unpaid deposit for non-deduction service performed before October 1, 1982, including interest computed to the effective date of phased retirement annuity, will be the basis for reduction of the phased retirement annuity for such unpaid deposit.

(4) As provided under § 831.1742(b)(2), the amount of any unpaid deposit for non-deduction service performed before October 1, 1982, including interest computed to the commencing date of the composite annuity, will be the basis for reduction of the "fully retired phased component" for such unpaid deposit.

(b)(1) Any redeposit an employee entering phased retirement status wishes to make for civilian service for which retirement deductions were refunded to the employee must be paid within 30 days from the date OPM notifies the employee of the amount of the redeposit, during the processing of the employee's application for phased retirement. The redeposit amount will include interest under § 831.105 computed to the effective date of phased retirement.

(2) No redeposit payment may be made by the phased retiree when entering full retirement status.

(3) As provided under § 831.1741(b), for the computation of monthly installment of phased retirement annuity, the amount of any unpaid redeposit at phased retirement, or unpaid balance thereof, including interest computed to the effective date of phased retirement, will be the basis, along with the phased retiree's age, for any actuarial reduction of the monthly installment of phased retirement annuity for such unpaid redeposit.

(4) As provided under § 831.1742(d)(1), any actuarial reduction for unpaid redeposit service applied to the monthly installment of phased retirement annuity, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 831.1741(b), is increased by cost-of-living adjustments and applied to the monthly installment derived from the composite retirement annuity.
