
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 110 - POSTING NOTICES OF NEW OPM REGULATIONS
##### § 110.102 What are Agency responsibilities?

(a) Agencies will make regulations available for review by employees, managers, and other interested parties. Federal agencies receiving the notices of rulemaking described in § 110.101(b) will make those regulations available for review upon request. Each agency will complete the posting notice described in § 110.101(a) indicating where and how requests to review these materials should be made.

(b) Agencies will determine posting locations and, if desired, develop supplemental announcements. Agencies will display completed posting notices in a prominent place where the notices can be easily seen and read. Agencies will choose the posting location that best fits their physical layout. Agencies may supplement these postings with announcements in employee newsletters, agency Web sites, or other communication methods. The basic requirement to post the notice continues, however, even if supplemental announcement methods are used.

(c) Agencies will post notices of the new regulations even if thecomment date has passed. The public comment period on proposed regulations begins when a notice of proposed rulemaking is published in thenot with the posting of the notice described in § 110.101(a). The purpose of posting notice is solely to inform agency personnel of changes. Agencies are required to post the posting notice even if the formal deadline for comments shown in the preamble of thenotice of rulemaking has passed. Agencies should make every reasonable effort to minimize delays in distributing the notice described in § 110.101 to their field offices.

(d) No fixed posting period. There are no minimum or maximum time limits on displaying the notice described in § 110.101(a). Each office receiving a notice for posting should choose the posting period which provides the best opportunity to inform managers and employees of regulatory changes based upon office layout, geographic dispersion of employees, and other local factors.
