
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart R - Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund
###### ยง 831.1806 OPM processing for non-fraud claims.
####### Future recovery.,and

(3)(i) If OPM receives an application for refund within 1 year of the date the agency's debt claim was receivedthe creditor agency does not indicate that interest is accruing on the debt, the debt will be processed as stated in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If OPM receives an application for refund within 1 year of the date the agency's debt claim was received and the creditor agency indicates that interest accrues on the debt, when necessary, OPM will contact the creditor agency to confirm that the debt is outstanding and request submission in writing, of the total additional accrued interest. OPM will not make interest computations for creditor agencies.

(iii) When OPM receives an application for refund more than 1 year after the creditor agency's debt claim was received, whether interest accrues or not, OPM will contact the creditor agency to see if the debt is still outstanding and, when necessary, request an update of the interest charges. If the debt is still due, the creditor agency must give the debtor an opportunity to establish that his or her changed financial circumstances, if any, would make the offset unjust. (See 4 CFR 102.4(c).) If the creditor agency determines that offset as requested in the debt claim would be unjust because of the debtor's changed financial circumstances, the agency should permit the debtor to offer a satisfactory repayment plan in lieu of offset. If the agency decides to pursue the offset, it must submit to OPM the requested information and any new instructions within 60 days of the date of OPM's request or the claim may be voided and the balance paid to the individual.
