
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart U - Deposits for Military Service
###### ยง 831.2107 Payments on deposits.

(a) Deposits made to agencies, the Clerk of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate.

(1) Deposits made to agencies, the Clerk of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate shall be collected in full in one lump sum whenever this is possible. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a separated employee who, through administrative error, did not make or complete the deposit prior to his or her separation must complete the deposit in a lump sum within the time limit set by OPM when it rules that an administrative error has been made.

(2) If the employee or Member cannot make payment in a lump sum, the agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate shall accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). However, agencies, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and the Secretary of the Senate will not be required to accept individual checks in amounts of less than $50.

(3) If the employee or Member dies, the employing agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate shall advise the survivor of the right to make or complete a deposit. If the survivor decides to make or complete the payment, the agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate shall collect the amount due in one lump sum.

(4) Payments received by the employing agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate shall be remitted immediately to OPM for deposit to the Fund.

(5) Once the employee's, Member's, or survivor's deposit has been paid in full or closed out, the employing agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate shall submit documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM, in accordance with instructions published by OPM issuances.

(6) Deposits must be made for full periods of service.

(b) Deposits made to OPM.

(1) Deposits made to OPM shall be made in a lump sum prior to final adjudication of the application for retirement or survivor benefits.

(2) Deposits must be made for full periods of service.

(c)(1) When an administrative error occurs by the employing agency in calculating or processing a military service deposit, interest assessed as a result of the administrative error may be paid by the agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate on behalf of the employee. The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate will determine if administrative error occurred.

(2) When an administrative error occurs by OPM in calculating or processing a military service deposit, interest assessed as a result of the administrative error may be paid by OPM on behalf of the employee. OPM will determine if administrative error occurred. Any payment of additional interest of behalf of the employee is paid from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
