
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart V - Alternative Forms of Annuities
###### ยง 831.2207 Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989.
####### prima facie

(ii) The existence of one of the following medical conditions isevidence of a life threatening affliction or other critical medical condition:

(A) Metastatic and/or inoperable neoplasms.

(B) Aortic stenosis (severe).

(C) Class IV cardiac disease with congestive heart failure.

(D) Respiratory failure.

(E) Cor pulmonale with respiratory failure.

(F) Emphysema with respiratory failure.

(G) [Reserved]

(H) Severe cardiomyopathy-Class IV.

(I) Aplastic anemia.

(J) Uncontrolled hypertension with hypertensive encephalopathy.

(K) Cardiac aneurysm not amenable to surgical treatment.

(L) Agranulocytosis.

(M) Severe hepatic failure.

(N) Severe Hypoxic brain damage.

(O) Severe portal hypertension with esophageal varices.

(P) AIDS (Active-Not AIDS Related Complex or only seropositivity).

(Q) Life threatening infections (encephalitis, meningitis, rabies, etc.).

(R) Scleroderma with severe esophageal involvement.

(S) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (rapidly progressive).

(T) Hemiplegia with life threatening complications.

(U) Quadriplegia with life threatening complications.

(iii) Evidence of the existence of a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition must be certified by a physician and sent to OPM on or before the date the annuitant elects to receive an alternative form of annuity. For the purpose of this section, "physician" has the same meaning given that term in ยง 339.102 of this chapter.

(iv) If a medical condition other than those listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is claimed as a basis for exemption from the deferred payment schedule, OPM will review the physician's certification to determine whether the cited condition is life-threatening or critical.

(v) The cost of providing medical documentation under this paragraph rests with the employee or Member, unless OPM exercises its choice of physician.
