
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 831 - RETIREMENT
##### Subpart Y - Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA)
###### ยง 831.2503 Deposits for service.

(a) An employee or Member subject to CSRS may make a deposit for volunteer service by filing an application in a form prescribed by OPM.

(b) The deposit is based upon the amount of the stipend that was received. If an educational award was elected in lieu of the stipend, then the deposit is based on the amount of the stipend that would have been received.

(c) An application to make a deposit is filed with the appropriate office in the employing agency, or, for Members and Congressional employees, with the Secretary of the Senate, or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as appropriate.

(d) Upon receipt and review of the application, the agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate will submit the application to OPM for processing.

(e) Interest begins to accrue on deposits for volunteer service on October 1, 1995, or 2 years after the date on which the individual first becomes an employee or Member, whichever is later.

(f) After becoming federally employed, there is a 2-year interest-free grace period on VISTA volunteer service deposits. After the 2-year period, interest is accrued and compounded annually at the variable rate beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period.

(g) A deposit is required in order to obtain service credit for VISTA volunteer service for which the volunteer chose to receive an educational award in lieu of a stipend. The deposit is based upon the amount of the stipend that would have been received if he/she had elected to receive the stipend rather than an educational award.
