
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart F - Terminology Used in Court Orders Affecting Employee Annuities or Refunds of Employee Contributions
###### Identification of Benefits
####### § 838.611 Identifying the retirement system.

(a) To satisfy the requirements of § 838.303(b)(1) or § 838.502(b)(1), a court order must contain language identifying the retirement system to be affected. For example, "CSRS," "FERS," "OPM," or "Federal Government" benefits, or benefits payable "based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture," etc., are sufficient identification of the retirement system.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, language referring to benefits under another retirement system, such as military retired pay, Foreign Service retirement benefits or Central Intelligence Agency retirement benefits, does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.303(b)(1) or § 838.502(b)(1).

(1) A court order that mistakenly labels CSRS benefits as FERS benefits and vice versa satisfies the requirements of §§ 838.303(b)(1) and 838.502(b)(1).

(2) Unless the court order expressly provides otherwise, for employees transferring to FERS, court orders directed at CSRS benefits apply to the entire FERS basic benefit, including the CSRS component, if any. Such a court order satisfies the requirements of §§ 838.303(b)(1) and 838.502(b)(1).

(c) A court order affecting military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, does not award a former spouse a portion of an employee annuity or a refund of employee contributions under CSRS or FERS. Such a court order does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.303(b)(1) or § 838.502(b)(1).
