
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Terminology Used in Court Orders Awarding Former Spouse Survivor Annuities
###### Identification of Benefits
####### § 838.911 Identifying the retirement system.

(a) To satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1), a court order must contain language identifying the retirement system affected. For example, "CSRS," "FERS," "OPM," or "Federal Government" survivor benefits, or "survivor benefits payable based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture," etc., are sufficient identification of the retirement system.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, language referring to benefits under another retirement system, such as military retired pay, Foreign Service retirement benefits and Central Intelligence Agency retirement benefits, does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1).

(1) A court order that mistakenly labels CSRS benefits as FERS benefits and vice versa satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1).

(2) Unless the court order expressly provides otherwise, for employees transferring to FERS, court orders directed at CSRS benefits apply to this entire FERS basic benefit, including the CSRS component, if any. Such a court order satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1).

(c) A court order affecting military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, does not award a former spouse survivor annuity under CSRS or FERS. Such a court order does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1).

(d) A court order that requires an employee or retiree to maintain survivor benefits covering the former spouse satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1), if the former spouse was covered by a CSRS or FERS survivor annuity or the FERS basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter at the time of the divorce.
