
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Terminology Used in Court Orders Awarding Former Spouse Survivor Annuities
###### Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 838 - Recommended Language for Court Orders Awarding Former Spouse Survivor Annuities

This appendix provides recommended language for use in court orders awarding former spouse survivor annuities. A former spouse survivor annuity is not a continuation of a former spouse's share of an employee annuity after the death of the employee. A former spouse's entitlement to a portion of an employee annuity cannot continue after the death of the employee. A court order that attempts to extend the former spouse's entitlement to a portion of an employee annuity past the death of the employee is not effective. The model language in this appendix does not award benefits payable to the former spouse during the lifetime of the employee. A separate, distinct award of a portion of the employee annuity is necessary to award a former spouse a benefit during the lifetime of the employee. Appendix A to subpart F of this part contains model language for a portion of an employee annuity.

Attorneys should exercise great care in preparing provisions concerning former spouse survivor annuities because sections 8341(h)(4) and 8445(d) of title 5, United States Code, prohibit OPM from accepting modifications after the retirement or death of the employee. (See ยง 838.806 concerning unacceptable modifications.) A court order awarding a former spouse survivor annuity should include four elements:

- Identification of the retirement system;

- Explicit award of the former spouse survivor annuity.

- Method for computing the amount of the former spouse's benefit; and

- Instructions on what OPM should do if the employee leaves Federal service before retirement and applies for a refund of employee contributions.

By using the model language, courts will know that the court order will have the effect described in this appendix.

The model language uses the terms "[former spouse]" to identify the spouse who is receiving a former spouse survivor annuity and "[employee]" to identify the Federal employee whose employment was covered by the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System. Obviously, in drafting an actual court order the appropriate terms, such as "Petitioner" and "Respondent," or the names of the parties should replace "[former spouse]" and "[employee]."
