
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### ยง 838.1008 Notifications.

(a) In a case in which the court order affects employee retirement benefits:

(1) The Associate Director will notify the employee, Member, or retiree that a court order has been received that appears to require that a portion of his or her retirement benefits be paid to a former spouse and provide the employee, Member, or retiree with a copy of the court order. The notice will inform the former employee or Member-

(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and

(ii) Of the effect that the court order will have on the former employee or Member's retirement benefits; and

(iii) That no payments will be made to the former spouse for a period of 30 days from the notice date to enable the former employee or Member to contest the court order.

(2) The Associate Director will notify the former spouse-

(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and

(ii) Of the amount that the former spouse is entitled to receive under the court order, and in cases that award a portion of the benefits on a percentage basis or by a formula, how the amount was computed; and

(iii) That payment is being delayed for a period of 30 days to give the former employee or Member an opportunity to contest the court order.

(b) In a case in which the court order awards a former spouse annuity-

(1) The Associate Director will notify the retiree, if living, or, if the employee, Member, or retiree is dead, his or her surviving spouse, or the person entitled to the lump-sum death benefit under section 8342 of title 5, United States Code, if possible, that a court order has been received that requires the payment of a former spouse annuity. The notice will include a copy of the court order. The notice will state-

(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and

(ii) The effect it will have on the potential retirement benefit of the person receiving the notice; and

(iii) That any objection to honoring the court order must be filed within 30 days from the notice date.

(2) The former spouse will be notified-

(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and

(ii) Of the amount of survivor annuity that he or she will be entitled to receive and how the amount was computed; and

(iii) That anyone adversely affected has a period of 30 days in which to contest the court order.

(c) In a case in which the court order affects employee retirement benefits and awards a former spouse annuity all of the notices under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be provided.
