
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### ยง 838.1011 Effective dates.

(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to any employee retirement benefits regardless of the date of issuance of the court order or the date when the employee or Member retires.

(2) The Associate Director will not increase the amount apportioned from current retirement benefits to satisfy an arrearage due the former spouse unless the court order states the amount of the arrearage and directs that it be paid from the employee retirement benefit. However, the Associate Director will honor the terms of a new or revised court order that either increases or decreases the former spouse's entitlement. These changes will be prospective only.

(3) Benefits payable to a former spouse from a retiree's annuity begin to accrue no earlier than the beginning of the month after receipt of a qualifying court order and the documentation required by ยง 838.1005, and terminate no later than the last day of the month before the death of the retiree.

(b)(1) The provisions of this subpart concerning former spouse annuities apply only with respect to a former spouse of an employee, Member, or retiree who retires or dies while employed in a position covered by CSRS on or after May 7, 1985, or a former spouse whose marriage to an employee, Member, or retiree is terminated on or after May 7, 1985, regardless of the date the employee separates from a position covered by CSRS.

(2) The survivor annuity for a former spouse commences and terminates in accordance with the court order. However, a court order will not be honored to the extent it would require an annuity to commence before-

(i) The day after the employee, Member, or retiree dies; or

(ii) The first day of the second month beginning after OPM receives the court order, together with such additional information required by ยง 838.1005, whichever is later. Further, a court order will not be honored to the extent it requires an annuity to be terminated contrary to section 8341(h)(3)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
