
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### ยง 838.1013 Limitations.

(a) Employee retirement benefits are subject to apportionment by court order only while the former employee or Member is living. Payment of apportioned amounts will be made only to the former spouse and/or the children of the former employee or Member. Payment will not be made to any of the following:

(1) The heirs or legatees of the former spouse; or

(2) The creditors of the former employee or Member, or the former spouse; or

(3) Other assignees of the former employee or Member, or the former spouse.

(b) The amount of payment under this subpart will not be less than one dollar and, in the absence of compelling circumstances, will be in whole dollars.

(c) In honoring and complying with a court order, the Associate Director will not disrupt the scheduled method of accruing retirement benefits or the normal timing for making such payment, despite the existence of a special schedule of accrual or payment of amounts due the former spouse.

(d) Payments from employee retirement benefits under this subpart will be discontinued whenever the retiree's annuity payments are suspended or terminated. If annuity payments to the retiree are restored, payment to the former spouse will also resume.

(e) Since the former spouse is entitled to payments from employee retirement benefits only while the former employee or Member is living, the former spouse is personally liable for any payments from employee retirement benefits received after the death of the retiree.
