
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### Appendix A to Subpart J of Part 838 - Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Dividing Civil Service Retirement Benefits
####### G. Amounts less than $12 per year.

Orders awarding a former spouse less than $12 per year are qualifying court orders. Such orders will be interpreted as an award of $1 per month.

A. Gross annuity will be interpreted as the amount of the annuity payable after any applicable survivor reduction but before any other deduction.

B. 1. To divide an annuity before any applicable survivor reduction, the decree must contain language to the effect that the division is to be made on the self-only annuity, the life-rate annuity, or the annuity unreduced for survivor benefit, or equivalent language. A division of "gross annuity" will not accomplish this purpose.

2. To divide an annuity before the social security offset under section 8349 of title 5, United States Code, the order must expressly state that the division is to occur before the social security offset. The term "unreduced annuity" will mean annuity after the social security offset.

C. Net annuity or disposable annuity will be interpreted to mean net annuity as defined in ยง 838.1003.

D. Orders that fail to state the type of annuity that they are dividing will be interpreted as dividing gross annuity (defined above).

E. Orders dividing a "retirement check" will be interpreted as dividing net annuity (as defined in ยง 838.1003).

A. The smallest unit of time that will be used in computing a formula in a decree is a month.

1. This policy is based on section 8332 of title 5, United States Code, that allows credit for service for years or twelfth parts thereof. Requests to calculate smaller units of time will not be honored.
