
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### Appendix A to Subpart J of Part 838 - Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Dividing Civil Service Retirement Benefits
####### in years and twelfth parts.

2. Time calculations by the Office of Personnel Management will be no more precise than years and twelfth parts, even where the court order directs OPM to make a more precise calculation. However, if the court order states a formula using a specified simple or decimal fraction other than twelfth parts, OPM will use the specified number to perform simple mathematical computations. For example, the share of a former spouse awarded a portion of the annuity equal toof the fraction whose numerator is 12.863 years and whose denominator is the total service on which the annuity is based would be computed by takingof the quotient obtained by dividing 12.863 by the total service measured

B. The term "military service" will generally be interpreted to include only periods of service within the definition of military service contained in section 8331(13) of title 5, United States Code, i.e., active duty military service. Civilian service with military organizations will not be included as "military service," except where the exclusion of such civilian service would be manifestly contrary to the intent of the court order.

C. 1. Unused sick leave is counted as "creditable service" on the date of separation for immediate retirement; it is not apportioned over the time when earned.

2. When an order contains a formula for dividing annuity that requires a computation of service worked as of a date prior to separation and using terms such as "years of service," "total service," or similar terms, the time attributable to unused sick leave will not be included.

3. When an order contains a formula for dividing annuity that requires a computation of "creditable service" (or some other phrase using "credit" or its equivalent) as of a date prior to retirement, unused sick leave will be included in the computation as follows-

(i) If the amount of unused sick leave is specified, the order will be interpreted to award a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly annuity at retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of "creditable service" as of the date specified plus the number of months of unused sick leave specified and whose denominator is the months of "creditable service" used in the retirement computation.

(ii) If the amount of unused sick leave is not specified, the order will be interpreted to award a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly rate at the time of retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of "creditable service" as of the date specified (no sick leave included) and whose denominator is the number of months of "creditable service" used in the retirement computation.

A. Orders that are unclear about whether they are dividing an annuity or a refund of contributions will be interpreted as dividing an annuity.

B. Orders using "annuities," "pensions," "retirement benefits," or similar terms will be interpreted as dividing an annuity and whatever other employee benefits become payable, such as refunds. Orders using "contributions," "deductions," "deposits," "retirement accounts," "retirement fund," or similar terms will be interpreted as dividing the amount of contributions the employee has paid into the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Unless the court order specifically states otherwise, when an annuity is payable, such orders will be paid in equal monthly installments at 50 percent of the monthly annuity at the time of retirement or the date of the order, whichever comes later, until the specific dollar amount is reached.

A. Orders that do not specify what pension or retirement benefits are to be divided will not be interpreted as dividing CSRS benefits. Terms such as "CSRS," "United States," "OPM," "Federal Government" benefits, "Postal Service retirement benefits," "retirement benefits payable based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture," or similar terms will be considered sufficient to identify civil service retirement benefits for division.

B. Except as provided below, orders directed at other retirement systems will not be interpreted as affecting CSRS benefits.
