
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart J - Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits
###### Appendix B to Subpart J of Part 838 - Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Awarding Survivor Annuity Benefits to Former Spouses
####### vice versa.

1. Orders that mistakenly label CSRS benefits as Federal Employee's Retirement System (FERS) benefits, will be interpreted as affecting CSRS benefits and

2. Unless the order expressly provides otherwise, for employees transferring to FERS, orders directed at CSRS benefits will be interpreted as applying to the entire FERS basic benefit, including the CSRS component, if any.

B. Orders directed at other Federal retirement systems such as military retired pay, Foreign Service retirement benefits and Central Intelligence Agency retirement benefits will not be interpreted as awarding a former spouse annuity under CSRS. Thus, orders should contain language identifying the retirement system from which survivor benefits are being awarded. For example, orders should contain terms such as "CSRS," "OPM," "Federal Government employee survivor benefits," or "survivor benefits payable based on service with the U. S. Department of Agriculture," etc.

C. Orders affecting military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, will not be interpreted as awarding a former spouse annuity under CSRS.

A. Orders must contain language identifying the benefits affected. For example, "CSRS," "OPM," or "Federal Government" survivor benefits, or "survivor benefits payable based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture," etc., will be considered sufficient identification.

B. 1. Except as provided paragraphs B2 through B4, orders must specify the benefit being awarded. Orders must contain language such as "survivor annuity," "death benefits," "former spouse annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h)(1)," etc.

2. Orders that provide that the former spouse is to "continue as" or "be named as" the "designated beneficiary" of CSRS benefits will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity.

3. Orders that provide that the former spouse will "continue to receive benefits after the death of" the employee or "that benefits will continue after the death of" the employee, but do not use terms such as "survivor annuity," "death benefits," "former spouse annuity," or similar terms will not be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity.

4. Orders that give the former spouse the right to elect a former spouse annuity will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity. The former spouse does not have an election opportunity. OPM will not accept an election by the former spouse to eliminate the court-awarded former spouse annuity.

C. 1. Orders that unequivocally award survivor annuity and direct the former spouse to pay for that benefit are qualifying court orders. If the former spouse has also been awarded a portion of the retiree's benefits then the cost of the survivor benefit will be deducted from the former spouse's portion of the annuity (if sufficient to cover the total cost-there will be no partial withholding). Otherwise, the reduction will be taken from the retiree's annuity and collection from the former spouse will be a private matter between the parties.

2. Orders that condition the award of survivor annuity on the former spouse's payment of the cost of the benefit are qualifying only if there is also an award of retirement benefits sufficient to cover the cost. Absent a sufficient award of employee retirement benefits to pay the cost of survivor benefits, the order is not qualifying.

D. Orders providing that former spouses will keep the survivor annuity to which they were entitled at the time of the divorce will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity in the same amount as they had at the time of divorce.

E. Orders that fail to state the amount of the former spouse annuity will be interpreted as providing the maximum former spouse annuity.

F. Orders awarding a former spouse annuity of less than $12 per year are qualifying court orders. Such orders will be interpreted to provide an initial rate of $1 per month plus all cost-of-living increases occurring after the date of the order. The reduction in the retiree's annuity will be computed as though the order provided a former spouse annuity of $1 per month.
