
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 838 - COURT ORDERS AFFECTING RETIREMENT BENEFITS
##### Subpart K - Court Orders Under the Child Abuse Accountability Act
###### Application, Processing, and Payment Procedures and Documentation Requirements
####### ยง 838.1121 Procedures and requirements.

(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this part, the procedures and requirements applicable to legal process under part 581 of this chapter apply to OPM's administration of child abuse judgment enforcement orders.

(b)(1) OPM will accept for processing any legal process under part 581 of this chapter that appears valid on its face.

(2)(i) After OPM has determined that a child abuse judgment enforcement order is valid on its face, OPM will not entertain any complaint concerning the validity of the order. Such complaints must be presented to authorities having jurisdiction to review the validity of the legal process.

(ii) OPM will not delay compliance with a child abuse judgment enforcement order based on any complaint concerning the validity of the order unless instructed to do so by an appropriate authority under the law of the jurisdiction issuing the legal process, the office of the United States Attorney for the jurisdiction issuing the legal process, or the U.S. Department of Justice.

(c)(1) The address for service of a child abuse judgment enforcement order is provided in appendix A to subpart A of this part.

(2)(i) OPM considers service of legal process by mailing or delivery of the child abuse judgment enforcement order to the designated address appropriate service notwithstanding more formal requirements imposed on creditors under State law.

(ii) OPM will execute forms required under a State procedure to waive any right to more formal procedures for service of legal process than specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
