
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 839 - CORRECTION OF RETIREMENT COVERAGE ERRORS UNDER THE FEDERAL ERRONEOUS RETIREMENT COVERAGE CORRECTIONS ACT
##### Subpart H - Adjusting Retirement Deductions and Contributions
###### Employee Retirement Deductions
####### ยง 839.804 If my qualifying retirement coverage error occurred while I was a reemployed annuitant, and I am later corrected retroactively to a different retirement plan, will I have to pay any additional amount for retirement deductions?

(a) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously in CSRS and had retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS Offset or FERS coverage, the amount erroneously withheld under CSRS will be used to pay the retroactive CSRS Offset or FERS retirement deductions and Social Security taxes.

(b) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS Offset or FERS, your share of retroactive Social Security taxes will be treated as an overpayment of salary. If you are corrected to CSRS Offset, you may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary as a reemployed annuitant and may also make a deposit to cover the retirement deductions for past service as a reemployed annuitant in accordance with ยง 837.503(c) of this chapter. If you are corrected to FERS, your retirement deductions under FERS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.

(c) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously in CSRS Offset and had retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS or FERS coverage, the amount erroneously withheld under CSRS Offset will be used to pay the retroactive CSRS or FERS retirement deductions. The employer is responsible for paying to the Fund any additional retirement deductions.

(d) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS Offset and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS, you may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary as a reemployed annuitant and may also make a deposit to cover the retirement deductions for past service as a reemployed annuitant in accordance with ยง 837.503(c) of this chapter. Your retirement deductions under CSRS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.

(e) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS Offset and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to FERS, your retirement deductions under FERS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.

(f) A reemployed annuitant erroneously placed in FERS and later corrected to CSRS or CSRS Offset is considered to have elected retirement deductions as a reemployed annuitant under the corrected coverage. The employer is responsible for paying to the Fund any additional retirement deductions under the corrected retirement coverage.

(g) If you have a salary overpayment, your employer will inform you of your rights regarding the overpayment.

(h) These rules are summarized in the following chart:
