
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 841 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 841.102 Regulatory structure for the Federal Employees Retirement System.

(a) This part contains the following subparts:

(1) General provisions (subpart A);

(2) Applications for benefits (subpart B);

(3) Claims processing (subpart C);

(4) Government costs (subpart D);

(5) Employee deductions and Government contributions (subpart E);

(6) Computing interest (subpart F);

(7) Cost-of-Living Adjustments (subpart G);

(8) Waiver, allotment, or assignment of benefits (subpart H);

(9) Court orders affecting benefits (subpart I); and

(10) State income tax withholding (subpart J).

(b)(1) Part 842 of this chapter contains information about basic annuity rights of employees and Members under FERS.

(2) Part 843 of this chapter contains information about death benefits and employee refunds under FERS.

(3) Part 844 of this chapter contains information about disability retirement benefits under FERS.

(4) Part 845 of this chapter contains information about debt collection.

(5) Part 846 of this chapter contains information about election rights available to employees who are eligible to join FERS.

(6) Part 848 of this chapter contains information about phased retirement under FERS.

(c)(1) Part 831 of this chapter contains information about the Civil Service Retirement System.

(2) Part 835 of this chapter contains information about debt collection from FERS benefits.

(3) Part 837 of this chapter contains information about reemployment of FERS annuitants.

(4) Part 838 of this chapter contains information about court orders affecting FERS benefits.

(5) Part 847 of this chapter contains information about elections under the Civil Service Retirement System or FERS relating to periods of service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality under the jurisdiction of the armed forces.

(6) Part 850 of this chapter contains information about CSRS and FERS electronic retirement processing.

(7) Parts 294 and 297 of this chapter and ยง ยง 831.106 and 841.108 of this chapter contain information about disclosure of information from OPM records.

(8) Part 581 of this chapter contains information about garnishment of Government payments including salary and CSRS and FERS retirement benefits.

(9) Parts 870, 871, 872, and 873 of this chapter contain information about the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.

(10) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.

(11) Chapter II (parts 1200 through 1299) of this title contains information about appeals to the Merit Systems Protection Board.

(12) Chapter VI (parts 1600 through 1699) of this title contains information about the Federal Employees Thrift Savings Plan.
