
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 841 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Employee Deductions and Government Contributions
###### ยง 841.504 Agency responsibilities.

(a) Each employing agency is required to contribute the total amount of the normal cost percentage for each category of its employees, determined under ยง 841.413 of this part, to the Fund.

(b) Each employing agency must withhold the appropriate amount of employee deductions from the basic pay paid each covered employee for each pay period. No employee deduction is due if an employee receives no basic pay for a pay period.

(c) An employing agency must record the appropriate amount of employee deductions on an individual retirement record maintained for each employee in the manner prescribed by OPM.

(d) When an employee separates from Federal service or transfers to another agency, or transfers to a position in which he or she is not covered by FERS, the agency must close the employee's Individual Retirement Record (IRR) and forward it to OPM within the time standards prescribed by OPM. However, if an employee transfers to another position covered under FERS-

(1) Within the same agency, and

(2) To a position serviced by another payroll office, the agency may, in lieu of forwarding an IRR to OPM at the time of the intra-agency transfer, record the transfer for future IRR certification in an internal automated system of records.

(e) An agency must maintain payroll systems and records in such manner as to permit accurate and timely reporting to OPM, in the manner prescribed by OPM.

(f) An agency must report the employee deduction and agency contribution amounts for each pay period in the manner prescribed by OPM.

(g) An agency must make such other reports of the normal cost, employee deductions and Government contributions amounts as are prescribed and in the manner prescribed by OPM.

(h) An agency must remit in full the total amount of normal cost (which includes both employee deductions and Government contributions), so that payment is received by the Fund on the day of payment to the employee of the basic pay from which the employee deductions were made.

(i) Upon the death of an employee whose tour of duty is less than full time, the employing agency must certify to OPM-

(1) The number of hours that the employee was entitled to basic pay (whether in a duty or paid-leave status) in the 52-week work year immediately preceding the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status; and

(2) If the employee's tour of duty was part time (regularly scheduled), the number of hours of work in the employee's tour of duty.
