
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 841 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart J - State Income Tax Withholding
###### ยง 841.1006 Additional provisions.

These additional provisions are also binding on the State and OPM:

(a) A request or revocation is effective when processed by OPM. OPM will process each request by the first day of the second month following the month in which it is received, but incurs no liability or indebtedness by its failure to do so.

(b) Any amount deducted from an annuity payment and paid to the State as a result of a request is deemed properly paid, unless the annuity payment itself is cancelled.

(c) OPM will provide the State with the information necessary to properly process a request for State income tax withholding.

(d) If the State is paid withholding which is contrary to the terms of the annuitant's request, the State is liable to the annuitant for the amount improperly withheld, and subject to account verification from OPM, agrees to pay that amount to the annuitant on demand.

(e) In the case of a dispute amount in any of the reports described and authorized by this agreement, the Associate Director will issue an accounting. If the State finds this accounting unacceptable, it may then and only then pursue such remedies as are otherwise available.

(f) If a State received an overpayment of monies properly belonging to the Fund, OPM will offset the overpayment from a future payment due the State. If there are no further payments due the State, OPM will inform the State in writing of the amount due. Within 60 days of the date of receipt of that communication that State will make payment of the amount due.
