
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart A - Coverage
###### ยง 842.104 Statutory exclusions.
####### Certain Federal employees who elect to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia.

(g)(1) A former employee of the District of Columbia who is appointed in a Federal position by the Department of Justice, or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency established by section 11233(a) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(c) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, is excluded from FERS coverage beginning on the date of the Federal appointment, if the employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia under section 3 of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and if the following conditions are met:

(i) The employee is hired by the Department of Justice or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency during the period beginning August 5, 1997, and ending 1 year after the date on which the Lorton Correctional Complex is closed, or 1 year after the date on which the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency assumes its duties, whichever is later; and

(ii) The employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia no later than June 1, 1999 or 60 days after the date of the Federal appointment, whichever is later.

(2) An individual's election to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia remains in effect until the individual separates from service with the Department of Justice or the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency.
