
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart A - Coverage
###### ยง 842.109 Continuation of coverage for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.

(a) A Federal employee who was covered under FERS;

(1) Was employed by the Department of Defense to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program as of the day before the date of the transfer of the Program to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety; and

(2) Was offered and accepted employment by the Corporation as part of the transition described in section 1612(d) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 517-remains covered by FERS during continuous employment with the Corporation unless the individual files an election under paragraph (c) of this section. Such a covered individual is treated as if he or she were a Federal employee for purposes of this part, and of any other part within this title relating to FERS. The individual is entitled to the benefits of, and is subject to all conditions under, FERS on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.

(b) Cessation of employment with the Corporation for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under FERS during any subsequent employment by the Corporation.

(c) An individual described by paragraph (a) of this section may at any time file an election to terminate continued coverage under the Federal benefits described in ยง 1622(a) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 521. Such an election must be in writing and filed with the Corporation. It takes effect immediately when received by the Corporation. The election applies to any and all Federal benefits described by section 1622(a) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 521, and is irrevocable. The Corporation must transmit the election to OPM with the individual's retirement records.

(d) The Corporation must withhold from the pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section an amount equal to the percentage withheld from the pay of a Federal employee for periods of service covered by FERS and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.

(e) The Corporation must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under FERS.
