
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 842.305 Deposits for civilian service.
####### Cadet Nurse Corps.

(g)(1) Upon receiving an application for service credit with the Cadet Nurse Corps, OPM will determine whether all the conditions for creditability (ยง 842.304(b)) have been met; compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the employing agency and the employee of the total amount of the deposit due. The rate of basic pay for this purpose is deemed to be $15 per month for the first 9 months of study; $20 per month for the 10th through the 21st months of study; and $30 per month for any month in excess of 21 months. Interest is computed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) The employing agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum) to record the date and amount of each payment.

(3) If the individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the employing agency must accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). The employing agency, however, is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50.

(4) Payments received by the employing agency must be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

(5) Once the employee's deposit has been paid in full or closed out, the employing agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
