
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 842.305 Deposits for civilian service.
####### Computing the deposit for annuitants and survivors.

(2)(i) For individuals who do not have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed based on-

(A) One and three tenths percent of basic pay at the time the service was performed; and

(B) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year as specified by section 8334(e)(2) of title 5, United States Code, to the midpoint of the 24-month installment period, or if paid in a lump sum, the date the deposit is paid.

(ii) For individuals who will have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed as specified in 5 CFR 831.306(e)(2)(i) and (ii)(A).

(iii)(A) OPM will notify annuitants and survivors of the amount of the deposit and give them a proposed installment schedule for paying the deposit from monthly annuity payments. The proposed installment payments will consist of equal monthly payments that will not exceed a period 24 months from the date a complete written application is received by OPM.

(B) The annuitant or survivor may allow the deposit installments to be deducted from his or her annuity as proposed or make payment in a lump sum within 30 days from the date of the notice.

(C) Increased annuity payments will begin to accrue the first day of the month after OPM receives the complete written application.

(iv) If an annuitant dies before completing the deposit installment payments, the remaining installments will be deducted as established for the annuitant from benefits payable to the survivor annuitant (but not if the only survivor benefit is payable to a child or children of the deceased), if any. If no survivor annuity is payable, OPM may collect the balance of the deposit from any lump sum benefits payable or from the decedent's estate, if any.
