
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 842.305 Deposits for civilian service.
####### Processing deposit applications and payments.

(7)(i) The department or agency where the service described in ยง 842.304(e) was performed must process the deposit applications and payments under this section. If the department or agency where the service was performed no longer exists, the Department of State must process the deposit applications and payments under this section.

(ii) Whenever requested, the Department of State must assist the department or agency responsible for processing deposit applications under this section determine whether the application meets the requirements of ยง 842.304(e).

(iii) Upon receiving a deposit application under this section, the department or agency must determine whether the application meets the requirements of ยง 842.304(e); compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the applicant of the total amount of deposit due.

(iv) The department or agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due.

(v) When it receives an individual's payment for the service, the department or agency must remit the payment to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.

(vi) Once a deposit has been paid in full or otherwise closed out, the department or agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
