
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart C - Credit for Service
###### ยง 842.308 Refunds of deductions and service credit deposits made before becoming subject to FERS.

(a) An employee or Member who, while currently employed, is eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8342(a) for a refund of deductions or deposits (relating to civilian service performed before becoming subject to FERS and totaling less than 5 years, not counting service after 1983 that was covered simultaneously by both CSRS and social security) that were previously made for a period of service performed before becoming subject to FERS is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The amount of this refund is the difference between-

(1) The amount of deductions and deposits to his or her credit for such service, plus any interest computed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8331(8): and

(2) The amount of the deposit required for such service under ยง 842.305.

(b) A former employee or Member who is eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8342(a) for a refund of deductions or deposits covering civilian service of the types described in paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The individual may irrevocably elect a refund, with resepct to this service, of either-

(1) The amount provided under paragraph (a) of this section; or

(2) The full amount of deductions and deposits to his or her credit for such service, plus any interest computed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8331(8). If the full amount of deductions and deposits is elected by the former employee or Member, no future deposit for the service may be made.

(c) An employee or Member, who, before becoming subject to FERS, made a deposit for military service is eligible upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM, while currently employed, for a refund of the amount deposited, excluding interest, to the extent that this amount exceeds the amount of the deposit required for such service under ยง 842.307.

(d) A former employee or Member who, before becoming subject to FERS, made a deposit for military service is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The former employee or Member may irrevocably elect to receive either-

(1) The amount provided under paragraph (c) of this section; or

(2) The full amount deposited and remaining to the individual's credit. If the full amount of the deposit is elected, no future deposit for the service may be made.

(e) If the current employing agency holds all necessary records pertaining to the amounts in question under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the current employing agency will pay the refund in accordance with OPM instructions. Otherwise, OPM will pay the refund.
