
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 842 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - BASIC ANNUITY
##### Subpart H - Law Enforcement Officers, Firefighters, and Air Traffic Controllers
###### Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
####### ยง 842.811 Deposits for second-level supervisory air traffic controller service performed before February 10, 2004.
######## Processing deposit applications and payments.

(g)(1)Upon receiving an application for deposit under this section, the agency shall determine whether the application meets the requirements of this section; compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the applicant of the total amount of deposit due.

(2) The agency shall establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum) to record the date and amount of each payment.

(3) If an eligible individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the agency shall accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). The agency, however, is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50.

(4) Payments received by the agency shall be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

(5) Once a deposit has been paid in full or otherwise closed out, the agency shall submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
