
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 843 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DEATH BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE REFUNDS
##### Subpart C - Current and Former Spouse Benefits
###### ยง 843.303 Marriage duration requirements.

(a) The current spouse of a retiree, an employee, or a separated employee can qualify for a current spouse annuity or the basic employee death benefit only if-

(1) The current spouse and the retiree, employee, or separated employee had been married for at least 9 months, as explained in paragraph (b) of this section; or

(2) A child was born of the marriage, as explained in paragraph (c) of this section; or

(3) The death of the retiree, employee, or separated employee was accidental as explained in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) For satisfying the 9-month marriage requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the aggregate time of all marriages between the spouse applying for a current spouse annuity and the retiree, employee, or separated employee is included.

(c) For satisfying the child-born-of-the-marriage requirement of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any child, including a posthumous child, born to the spouse and the retiree, employee, or separated employee is included. This includes a child born out of wedlock if the parents later married or of a prior marriage between the same parties.

(d)(1) A death is accidental if it results from homicide or from bodily injuries incurred solely through violent, external, and accidental means. The term "accidental" does not include a death caused by or the result of intentional self-destruction or intentionally self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane.

(2) A State judicial or administrative adjudication of the cause of death for criminal or insurance purposes is conclusive evidence of whether a death is accidental.
