
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 844 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DISABILITY RETIREMENT
##### Subpart D - Termination and Reinstatement of Disability Annuity
###### ยง 844.402 Restoration of earning capacity.
####### Current rate of basic pay for the position occupied immediately before retirement.

(b)(1) A disability annuitant's income for a calendar year is compared to the gross annual rate of basic pay in effect on December 31 of that year for the position occupied immediately before retirement. The income limitation for most disability annuitants is based on the rate for the grade and step that reflects the total amount of basic pay (both the grade and step and any additional basic pay) in effect on the date of separation from the agency for disability retirement. Additional basic pay is included subject to the premium pay restrictions of 5 U.S.C. 5545 (c)(1) and (c)(2).

(2) In the case of an annuitant whose basic pay rate on the date determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section did not match a specific grade and step in the pay schedule:

(i) For those retiring from a Senior Executive Service position, a merit pay position, a position for which a special pay rate is authorized (except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section), or any other position in which the rate of basic pay is not equal to a grade and step in a pay schedule, the grade and step will be established for this purpose at the lowest step in the pay schedule grade that is equal to or greater than the actual rate of basic pay payable.

(ii) For those retiring with a retained rate of basic pay or from a position for which a special pay rate is in effect but whose rate of basic pay exceeds the highest rate payable in the pay schedule grade applicable to the position held, the grade is established for this purpose at the highest grade in the schedule that is closest to the grade of the position held and within which the amount of the retained pay falls. The step is established for this purpose at the lowest step in that grade that equals or exceeds the actual rate of pay payable.

(3) For annuitants retiring from the United States Postal Service, only cost-of-living allowances subject to FERS deductions are included in determining the current rate of basic pay of the position held at retirement.
