
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 844 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DISABILITY RETIREMENT
##### Subpart D - Termination and Reinstatement of Disability Annuity
###### ยง 844.402 Restoration of earning capacity.
####### Income.

(c)(1) Earning capacity for the purposes of this section is demonstrated by an annuitant's ability to earn post-retirement income in exchange for personal services or a work product, or as a profit from one or more businesses wholly or partly owned by the disability annuitant and in the management of which the annuitant has an active role. Income for the purposes of this section is not necessarily the same as income for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.

(2) Income earned from one source is not offset by losses from another source. Income earned as wages is not reduced by a net loss from self-employment. The net income from each self-employment endeavor is calculated separately, and the income earned as net earnings from one self-employment endeavor is not reduced by a net loss from another self-employment endeavor. Thus, a net loss from one endeavor is considered to be a net income of zero, and the net incomes from each separate self-employment endeavor are added together to determine the total amount of income from self-employment for a calendar year.

(3) Income is counted in the calendar year in which it is earned, even though receipt may be deferred.
