
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 844 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DISABILITY RETIREMENT
##### Subpart D - Termination and Reinstatement of Disability Annuity
###### § 844.404 Reinstatement of disability annuity.
####### Reinstatement of annuity terminated because earning capacity was restored.

(c)(1) OPM will reinstate the disability annuity as provided in paragraph (d) of this section when a disability annuitant whose annuity was terminated under § 844.402(a):

(i) Is not reemployed in a position subject to FERS;

(ii) Has not recovered from the disability for which the individual retired (except in the case of a military reserve technician whose annuity was awarded under 5 U.S.C. 8456); and

(iii) Again loses earning capacity, as determined by OPM.

(2) The reinstated annuity is payable from January 1 of the year following the calendar year in which earning capacity was lost. Earning capacity is lost if, during any calendar year, the individual's income from wages or self-employment or both is less than 80 percent of the current rate of basic pay of the position held at retirement.

(d) Except as provided in §§ 844.303 and 844.304, a disability annuity reinstated under the preceding paragraphs of this section is paid at the rate provided under § 844.302(b) until the end of the 12th month beginning after the annuity is reinstated. Thereafter, the rate determined under § 844.302(c) is payable until age 62.

(e) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, an annuity may not be reinstated under this section if the individual is receiving an annuity under part 842 of this chapter.
