
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 845 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart B - Collection of Overpayment Debts
###### ยง 845.204 Processing.
####### Requests for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise.

(b)(1) If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is returned to OPM by mail, it must be postmarked within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is hand delivered, it must be received within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. OPM may extend the 30-day time limit for filing when individuals can prove that they-

(i) Were not notified of the time limit and were not otherwise aware of it; or

(ii) Were prevented by circumstances beyond their control from making the request within the time limit.

(2) When a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise covered by this paragraph is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.

(3) Individuals requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position.

(4) An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated on the basis of the standards set forth in subpart C of this part. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated on the basis of standards set forth in the FCCS (4 CFR part 103).
