
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 845 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart D - Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt From the Civil Service Retirement Fund
###### ยง 845.406 OPM processing for non-fraud claims.
####### Refunds-incomplete debt claims.

(a)(1) If a creditor agency sends OPM a notice of debt claim against a refund OPM is processing for payment, OPM will withhold the amount of the debt but will not make any payment to the creditor agency. OPM will notify the creditor agency that the procedures in this subpart and 4 CFR 102.4 must be completed; and a debt claim must be completed and returned to OPM within 120 days of the date of OPM's notice to the creditor agency. Upon request, OPM will grant the creditor agency one extension of up to 60 days if the request for extension is received before the lump-sum payment has been made. The extension will commence on the day after the 120-day period expires so that the total time OPM holds payment of the refund will not exceed 180 days.

(2) During the period allotted the creditor agency for sending OPM a complete debt claim, OPM will handle the debtor's application for refund under section 8424 of title 5, United States Code, in one of two ways:

(i) If the amount of the debt is known, OPM will notify the debtor of the debt claim against his or her lump-sum credit, withhold the amount of the debt, and pay the balance to the debtor, if any.

(ii) If the amount of the debt is not known, OPM will not pay any amount to the debtor until the creditor agency certifies the amount of the debt, submits a complete debt claim, or the time limit for submission of the debt claim expires, whichever comes first.
