
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 845 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart D - Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt From the Civil Service Retirement Fund
###### ยง 845.408 Special processing for fraud claims.
####### OPM processing against refunds.

(c)(1) Upon receipt of a notice under paragraph (a) or (b)(1) of this section, whichever is earlier, OPM will withhold the amount of the debt claim, if known; notify the debtor that the amount of the debt will be withheld from the refund for at least 180 days from the date of the notice that initiated OPM processing; and pay the balance to the debtor. If the amount of the debt claim is not known, OPM will notify the debtor that a debt claim may be offset against his or her refund and that OPM will not pay any amount until either the amount of the debt claim is established, or the time limit for filing a complaint in court or submitting the debt claim expires, whichever comes first.

(2) If the Attorney General files a complaint and notifies OPM within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will continue to withhold payment of the lump-sum credit until there is a final judgment.

(3) If the Attorney General refers the claim to the agency where the claim arose (creditor agency) and notifies OPM within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will notify the creditor agency that (i) the procedures in this subpart and 4 CFR 102.4 must be completed; and (ii) a debt claim must be sent to OPM within 120 days of the date of OPM's notice to the creditor agency. At the request of the creditor agency, one extension of time of not more than 60 days will be granted, as provided by ยง 845.406(a).

(4) If OPM is not notified that a complaint has been filed or that the claim has been referred to the creditor agency within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will pay the balance of the refund to the debtor.
