
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 846 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM - ELECTIONS OF COVERAGE
##### Subpart C - Effect of an Election To Become Subject to FERS
###### § 846.303 Crediting military service.

(a) Military service performed before the effective date of the election under § 846.201 creditable as provided under FERS, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) Military service described in paragraph (a) of this section which would be creditable under CSRS except for the provisions of § 846.306 and performed by an individual who is subject to an annuity computation under § 846.304(b) is creditable for-

(1) The minimum period for entitlement to an annuity under FERS based on-

(i) The immediate voluntary retirement provisions under § 842.204 of this chapter;

(ii) The early retirement provisions under § 842.205 of this chapter;

(iii) The involuntary retirement provisions under § 842.206 of this chapter;

(iv) The Member retirement provisions under § 842.209 of this chapter;

(v) The military reserve technician retirement provisions under § 842.210 of this chapter;

(vi) The Senior Executive Service, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, or the Senior Cryptological Executive Service retirement provisions under § 842.211 of this chapter; or

(vii) The deferred retirement provisions under § 842.212 of this chapter.

(2) Computation of benefits under § 846.304(b).

(c) If the effective date of the election of FERS by an individual who is subject to annuity computation under § 846.304(b) occurs when the individual is in non-pay status and is performing active military service, benefits for the military service performed before the effective date of the election are computed under CSRS, and benefits for the military service performed after the effective date are computed under FERS. The period of military service is considered to be two separate full periods of service, one ending the day before the effective date of FERS and one beginning on the effective date of FERS. The deposit for the period of service before the effective date of FERS coverage is computed under CSRS provisions set forth in part 831, subpart U of this chapter. The deposit for the period of service beginning on the effective date of FERS coverage is computed under FERS provisions set forth in part 842, subpart C of this chapter.
