
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 847 - ELECTIONS OF RETIREMENT COVERAGE BY CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 847.102 Regulatory structure.

(a)(1) Subpart A of this part contains information applicable to all elections under this part.

(2) Subpart B of this part contains information about prospective retirement coverage elections under sections 8347(q) and 8461(n) of title 5, United States Code.

(3) Subpart C of this part contains information about the procedures applicable to retroactive retirement coverage and alternative credit elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.

(4) Subpart D of this part contains information about the types of retroactive elections available, the eligibility requirements for each type of election, the effects of an election on CSRS and FERS coverage during future employment, and the effective dates of CSRS and FERS coverage applicable to elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.

(5) Subpart E of this part contains information about transferring retirement contributions in connection with elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.

(6) Subpart F of this part contains information about determining the employee costs associated with elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.

(7) Subpart G of this part contains information about benefits indirectly affected by elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.

(8) Subpart H of this part contains information about elections to credit NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under section 1132 of Public Law 107-107, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002.

(9) Subpart I of this part contains information about how benefits are computed when employees elect to credit NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under section 1132 of Public Law 107-107, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002.

(b) Section 831.305 of this chapter contains information about CSRS credit for NAFI service performed after June 18, 1952, but before January 1, 1966.

(c)(1) Part 831 of this chapter contains information about the Civil Service Retirement System.

(2) Parts 841 through 844 of this chapter contain information about FERS basic benefits.

(3) Part 837 of this chapter contains information about reemployment of annuitants.

(4) Part 870 of this chapter contains information about the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Program.

(5) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.

(6) Chapter II (parts 1200 through 1299) of this title contains information about appeals to the Merit Systems Protection Board.

(7) Chapter VI (parts 1600 through 1699) of this title contains information about the Federal Employees Thrift Savings Plan.
