
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### ยง 870.105 Initial decision and reconsideration.

(a) An individual may ask his or her agency or retirement system to reconsider its initial decision denying:

(1) Life insurance coverage;

(2) The opportunity to change coverage;

(3) The opportunity to designate a beneficiary; or

(4) The opportunity to assign insurance.

(b) An employing office's decision is an initial decision when the employing office gives it in writing and informs the individual of the right to an independent level of review (reconsideration) by the appropriate agency or retirement system.

(c) A request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the following:

(1) The employee's (or annuitant's) name, address, date of birth;

(2) The reason(s) for the request; and

(3) The retirement claim number (Civil Service Annuity Claim Number) or compensation number, if applicable.

(d) A request for reconsideration must be made within 31 calendar days from the date of the initial decision (60 calendar days if overseas). This time limit may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it or that he or she was unable, due to reasons beyond the individual's control, to make the request within the time limit.

(e) The reconsideration must take place at or above the level at which the initial decision was made.

(f) After reconsideration, the agency or retirement system must issue a final decision to the insured individual. This decision must be in writing and must fully state the findings.
