
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Types and Amount of Insurance
###### ยง 870.204 Annual rates of pay.

(a)(1) An employee's annual pay is the annual basic pay of the position as fixed by law or regulation, except as otherwise provided by specific provision of law or OPM regulation. Annual pay for this purpose includes the following:

(i) Any pay of a type that is treated as basic pay for purposes of the retirement systems established under 5 U.S.C. chapters 83 and 84, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8331(3), and pay that is annual pay for purposes of the FEGLI Program as provided in Federal law and regulation;

(ii) Any geographic-based pay supplement that is equivalent to a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and

(iii) Any special pay supplement for a defined subcategory of employees that is equivalent to a special rate supplement under 5 U.S.C. 5305.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) (1) of this section, annual basic pay does not include the following:

(i) Bonuses, allowances, overtime pay, military pay, or any other pay to a covered civilian employee given in addition to the base pay of the position, except as otherwise provided by specific provision of law or OPM regulation.

(ii) Physicians comparability allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5948.

(b) To convert a pay rate of other than annual salary to an annual rate, multiply the pay rate by the number of pay units in a 52-week work year.

(c) The annual pay for a part-time employee is his/her basic pay applied to his/her tour of duty in a 52-week work year.

(d) The annual pay for an employee on piecework rates is the total basic earnings for the previous calendar year, not counting premium pay for overtime or holidays.

(e) The annual pay for an employee with a regular schedule who works at different pay rates is the weighted average of the rates at which the employee is paid, projected to an annual basis.

(f) The annual pay for a non-Postal intermittent employee or an employee who works at different pay rates without a regular schedule is the annual rate which he/she is receiving at the end of the pay period.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section, if an employee legally serves in more than one position at the same time, and at least one of those positions entitles the employee to life insurance coverage, the annual pay for life insurance purposes is the sum of the annual rate of basic pay fixed by law or regulation for each position.

(2) Paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply to-

(i) An employee of the Postal Service who works on a part-time flexible schedule; or

(ii) A temporary, intermittent decennial census worker.

(3) If an employee's annual pay includes premium pay or availability pay under paragraphs (e), (f), or (g) of this section, the annual pay is determined by multiplying the employee's annual rate of basic pay by the applicable percentage factor.

(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the annual pay for a phased retiree, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a, is deemed to be the rate of a full-time employee in the position to which the phased retiree is appointed, as determined under 5 CFR 831.1715(a)(2) or 848.205(a)(2), as applicable.
