
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Eligibility
###### § 870.302 Exclusions.
####### Exceptions:

(3) An individual first employed by the government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987.

(i) An employee of St. Elizabeths Hospital, who accepts employment with the District of Columbia government following Federal employment without a break in service, as provided in section 6 of Public Law 98-621 (98 Stat. 3379);

(ii) An employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (Authority), who makes an election under the Technical Corrections to Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act (section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321)) to be considered a Federal employee for life insurance and other benefits purposes; employees of the Authority who are former Federal employees are subject to the provisions of §§ 870.503(d) and 870.705 of this part;

(iii) The Corrections Trustee or an employee of that Trustee who accepts employment with the District of Columbia government within 3 days after separating from the Federal Government.

(iv) The Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee or an employee of that Trustee;

(v) Effective October 1, 1997, a judicial or nonjudicial employee of the District of Columbia Courts, as provided by Public Law 105-33 (111 Stat. 251); and

(vi) Effective April 1, 1999, an employee of the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia, as provided by Public Law 105-274 (112 Stat. 2419).

(4) A teacher in a Department of Defense dependents school overseas, if employed by the Federal Government in a nonteaching position during the recess period between school years.

(b) The following employees are also excluded from life insurance coverage:
