
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Cost of Insurance
###### ยง 870.401 Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance.

(a)(1) The cost of Basic insurance is shared between the insured individual and the Government. The employee pays two-thirds of the cost, and the Government pays one-third.

(2) When OPM makes any adjustment to the Basic life insurance premium, it will issue a public notice in the

(b)(1) During each pay period in which an insured employee is in pay status for any part of the period, the employee's share of the premium must be withheld from the employee's biweekly pay. The amount withheld from the pay of an employee who is paid on other than a biweekly basis must be computed and adjusted to the nearest one-tenth of one cent.

(2) The amount withheld from the pay of an insured employee whose annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 work weeks is the amount obtained by converting the biweekly rate to an annual rate and prorating the annual rate over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.

(3) The amount withheld from the pay of an insured employee whose BIA changes during a pay period is based on the BIA last in force during the pay period.

(c) For each pay period in which an employee is insured, the employing agency must contribute an amount equal to one-half the amount withheld from the employee's pay. This agency contribution must come from the appropriation or fund that is used for the payment of the employee's pay. For an elected official, the contribution must come from the appropriation or fund that is available for payment of other salaries in the same office.

(d)(1) For an annuitant or compensationer who elects to continue Basic insurance and chooses the maximum reduction of 75 percent after age 65 under ยง 870.702(a)(2), the annuitant's share of the premium is withheld monthly and the compensationer's share is withheld every 4 weeks. These withholdings stop the month after the month in which the annuitant or compensationer reaches age 65. There are no withholdings from individuals who retired or began receiving compensation before January 1, 1990, and who elected the 75 percent reduction. For the purpose of this paragraph, an individual who separates from service after meeting the requirements for an immediate annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g) is considered to retire on the day before the annuity begins.

(2) An annuitant or compensationer who elects to continue Basic insurance and chooses either the reduction election of 50 percent or the election of no reduction after age 65 under ยง 870.702(a)(3) or (4) pays an additional premium for the 50 percent or no reduction election. This additional premium is withheld for each $1,000 of the BIA. At age 65, the Basic premium will stop, but the annuitant or compensationer must continue to pay the additional premium for either the 50 percent or the no reduction election.

(e)(1) For each period in which an annuitant or compensationer is insured, OPM must contribute an amount equal to one-half the amount that would be withheld under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Exception: for USPS employees who become annuitants or compensationers after December 31, 1989, the Postal Service pays the Government contributions.

(2) The Government contribution is the same amount whether the individual elects a maximum 75 percent reduction, a maximum 50 percent reduction, or no reduction.

(3) The Government contribution stops the month after the month in which the individual reaches age 65.

(f) When an agency withholds less than or none of the proper amount of Basic life insurance deductions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation, the agency must submit an amount equal to the sum of the uncollected deduction and any applicable agency contributions required under 5 U.S.C. 8708 to OPM for deposit in the Employees' Life Insurance Fund.
