
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Coverage
###### ยง 870.503 Basic insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
####### Exception:

(d) When an employee who has been separated from service for at least 180 days is reinstated on or after April 1, 1981, a previous waiver of Basic insurance is automatically cancelled. Unless the employee files a new waiver, Basic insurance becomes effective on the 1st day he or she actually enters on duty in pay status in a position in which he or she is eligible for coverage.For employees who waived Basic insurance after February 28, 1981, separated, and returned to Federal service before December 9, 1983, the waiver remained in effect; these employees were permitted to elect Basic insurance by applying to their employing office before March 7, 1984.

(e)(1) An employee of the Department of Defense who is designated as an "emergency essential employee" under section 1580 of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Basic insurance without providing satisfactory medical information.

(2) An election of Basic insurance under paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be made within 60 days of being designated "emergency essential." Basic insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.

(f)(1) A civilian employee who is eligible for Basic insurance coverage and is deployed in support of a contingency operation as defined by section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Basic Insurance without providing satisfactory medical information.

(2) An election of Basic insurance under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be made within 60 days after the date of notification of deployment in support of a contingency operation. Basic insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.
