
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Coverage
###### ยง 870.506 Optional insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
####### When there is a change in family circumstances,see

(a)(ยง 870.503(b)(3)). (1) An employee may cancel a waiver of Options A, B, and C due to a change in family circumstances as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (6) of this section.

(2) An employee who has waived Options A and B coverage may elect coverage, and an employee who has fewer than 5 multiples of Option B may increase the number of multiples, upon his or her marriage or divorce, upon a spouse's death, or upon acquisition of an eligible child.

(3) An employee electing or increasing Option B coverage may elect any number of multiples, as long as the total number of multiples does not exceed 5.

(4)(i) An employee who has waived Option C coverage may elect it, and an employee who has fewer than 5 multiples of Option C may increase the number of multiples, upon his or her marriage or acquisition of an eligible child. An employee may also elect or increase Option C coverage upon divorce or death of a spouse, if the employee has any eligible children.

(ii) An employee electing or increasing Option C coverage may elect any number of multiples, as long as the total number of multiples does not exceed 5.

(5)(i) Except as stated in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, the employee must file an election under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section with the employing office, in a manner designated by OPM, along with proof of the event, no later than 60 calendar days following the date of the event that permits the election; the employee may also file the election before the event and provide proof no later than 60 calendar days following the event.

(ii) An employee making an election under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section following the acquisition of an eligible foster child must file the election with the employing office no later than 60 calendar days after completing the required certification.

(iii) In the case of an employee who had a change in family circumstances between October 30, 1998, and April 23, 1999, an election under this section must have been made on or before June 23, 1999.

(iv) Within 6 months after an employee becomes eligible to make an election due to a change in family circumstances, an employing office may determine that the employee was unable, for reasons beyond his or her control, to elect or increase Optional insurance within the time limit. In this case, the employee must elect or increase Optional insurance within 60 calendar days after he or she is notified of the determination. The insurance is retroactive to the 1st day of the first pay period beginning after the date the individual became eligible if the employee was in pay and duty status that day. If the employee was not in pay and duty status that day, the coverage becomes effective the 1st day after that date the employee returned to pay and duty status. The individual must pay the full cost of the Optional insurance from that date for the time that he or she is in pay status.

(6)(i) The effective date of Options A and B insurance elected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is the 1st day the employee actually enters on duty in pay status on or after the day the employing office receives the election.
