
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Coverage
###### ยง 870.506 Optional insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
####### When there is no change in family circumstances.

(b)(1) An employee who has waived Option A or Option B coverage may cancel the waiver and elect coverage if:

(i) The employee makes an election during an open enrollment period; or

(ii) At least 1 year has passed since the effective date of the waiver, and the employee provides satisfactory medical evidence of insurability.

(2) An employee who has Option B coverage of fewer than five multiples of annual pay may increase the number of multiples if at least 1 year has passed since the effective date of his or her last election of fewer than five multiples (including a reduction in the number of multiples), and the employee provides satisfactory medical evidence of insurability.

(3) A waiver of Option C may be cancelled only if there is a change in family circumstances or during an open enrollment period.

(c) OFEGLI reviews the employee's request and determines whether the employee complied with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2) of this section. If the employee complied, then OFEGLI approves the Request for Insurance. The Option A and B insurance is effective on the date of OFEGLI's approval, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the date of OFEGLI's approval, the insurance is effective the first day the employee returns to pay and duty status, as long as it is within 60 calendar days of OFEGLI's approval. If the employee is not in pay and duty status within 60 calendar days after OFEGLI's approval, the approval is revoked automatically.

(d) If an employee waived Option A insurance on or before February 28, 1981, the waiver was automatically cancelled effective on the 1st day the employee entered on duty in pay status on or after April 1, 1981. Option A coverage was effective on the date of the waiver's cancellation, if the employee filed an election of Option A during the March 1, 1981, through March 31, 1981, open enrollment period. If the employee did not file the election with his or her employing office during the March 1981 open enrollment period, the employee is considered to have waived Option A on March 31, 1981.

(e) When an employee who has been separated from service for at least 180 days is reinstated on or after April 1, 1981, a previous waiver of Optional insurance is automatically cancelled, as follows:

(1) An employee who returned to service between April 1, 1981, and December 8, 1983, after a 180-day break in service was permitted to elect any form of Optional insurance by applying to his or her employing office before March 7, 1984.

(2) An employee who returns to service after December 8, 1983, following a 180-day break in service may elect any form of Optional insurance by applying to his or her employing office within 60 calendar days after reinstatement. Coverage is effective on the 1st day the employee actually enters on duty in pay status in a position in which he or she is eligible for insurance on or after the date the employing office receives the election. If the employee does not file a Life Insurance Election in a manner designated by OPM within the 60-day period, the employee has whatever Optional insurance coverage he or she had immediately before separating from Federal service and is considered to have waived any other Optional insurance. However, an employee who fails to file an election during the 60-day period due to reasons beyond his or her control may enroll belatedly under the conditions stated in ยง 870.504(a)(3).

(f)(1) An employee of the Department of Defense who is designated as "emergency essential" under section 1580 of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Option A and Option B insurance.

(2) An election of Option A or Option B insurance under paragraph (f)(1) must be made within 60 days of being designated "emergency essential." Optional insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.

(g)(1) A civilian employee who is eligible for life insurance coverage and who is deployed in support of a contingency operation as defined by section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Option A and/or Option B insurance.

(2) An election of Optional insurance under paragraph (g)(1) of this section must be made within 60 days after the date of notification of deployment in support of a contingency operation. Optional insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.

(h) An annuitant or compensationer is not eligible to cancel a waiver of any type of Optional insurance or to increase multiples of Option B under this section.
