
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Coverage
###### ยง 870.507 Open enrollment periods.

(a) There are no regularly scheduled open enrollment periods for life insurance. Open enrollment periods are held only when specifically scheduled by OPM.

(b) During an open enrollment period, unless OPM announces otherwise, eligible employees may cancel their existing waivers of Basic and/or Optional insurance by electing the insurance in a manner designated by OPM.

(c)(1) OPM sets the effective date for all insurance elected during an open enrollment period. The newly elected insurance is effective on the 1st day of the 1st pay period that begins on or after the OPM-established date and that follows a pay period during which the employee was in pay and duty status for at least 32 hours, unless OPM announces otherwise.

(2) A part-time employee must be in pay and duty status for one-half the regularly-scheduled tour of duty shown on his or her current Standard Form 50 for newly-elected coverage to become effective, unless OPM announces otherwise.

(3) An employee who has no regularly-scheduled tour of duty or who is employed on an intermittent basis must be in pay and duty status for one-half the hours customarily worked before newly-elected coverage can become effective, unless OPM announces otherwise. For the purpose of this paragraph, an employing office may determine the number of hours customarily worked by averaging the number of hours worked in the most recent calendar year quarter prior to the start of the open enrollment period.

(d) Within 6 months after an open enrollment period ends, an employing office may determine that an employee was unable, for reasons beyond his or her control, to cancel an existing waiver by electing to be insured during the open enrollment period. An election under this paragraph must be submitted within 60 days after being notified of the determination. Coverage is retroactive to the first pay period that begins on or after the effective date set by OPM and that follows a pay period during which the employee was in pay and duty status for at least 32 hours, unless OPM announces otherwise. If the employee does not file an election within this 60-day time limit, he or she will be considered to have waived coverage.
