
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Coverage
###### ยง 870.508 Nonpay status.

(a) An employee who is in nonpay status is entitled to continue life insurance for up to 12 months. No premium payments are required, unless the employee is receiving compensation.

(b) If an insured employee who is entitled to free insurance while in nonpay status accepts a temporary appointment to a position in which he or she would normally be excluded from insurance coverage, the insurance continues. The amount of Basic insurance (and Option B coverage if the employee has it) is based on the combined salaries of the two positions. Withholdings are made from the employee's pay in the temporary position.

(c) If an insured employee goes on leave without pay (LWOP) to serve as a full-time officer or employee of an employee organization, he or she may elect in writing to continue life insurance within 60 days after the beginning of the LWOP. The insurance continues for the length of the appointment, even if the LWOP lasts longer than 12 months. The employee must pay to the employing office the full cost of Basic and Optional insurance starting with the beginning of the nonpay status; the employee is not entitled to 12 months of free coverage. There is no Government contribution for these employees.

(d) If an insured employee goes on LWOP while assigned to a State government, local government, or institution of higher education, the employee may elect in writing to continue the life insurance for the length of the assignment, even if the LWOP lasts longer than 12 months. The employee must pay his or her premiums to the Federal agency on a current basis starting with the beginning of the nonpay status; the employee is not entitled to 12 months of free coverage. The agency must continue to pay its contribution as long as the employee makes his or her payments.
