
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Annuitants and Compensationers
###### ยง 870.703 Election of Basic insurance.
####### Continuation or reinstatement of Basic insurance with no reduction after age 65.

(4)Premiums are withheld from annuity or compensation.

(b)(1) Unless an employee has elected a partial Living Benefit under subpart K of this part or an individual has assigned the insurance under subpart I of this part, an insured individual may cancel an election under paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section at any time. The amount of Basic insurance automatically switches to the amount that would have been in force if the individual had originally elected the 75 percent reduction. This revised amount is effective at the end of the month in which OPM receives the request to cancel the previous election. There is no refund of premiums.

(2) If an individual files a waiver of insurance, the coverage stops without a 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right. Coverage ceases at the end of the month in which OPM received the waiver.

(c) Unless he/she chooses to terminate his/her insurance, an employee who has elected a partial Living Benefit must choose the no reduction election under paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The employee cannot later change to the 75 percent reduction.

(d) If an employee has assigned his or her insurance, he/she cannot cancel an election under paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section. Only the assignee(s) may cancel this election. Exception: If the employee elected a partial Living Benefit before assigning the remainder of his or her insurance, the assignee(s) cannot cancel the election under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(e)(1) For purposes of this part, a judge who retires under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section is considered to be an employee after retirement:

(ii) 28 U.S.C. 372(a);

(iii) 28 U.S.C. 377;

(iv) 26 U.S.C. 7447;

(v) 11 DC Code 776;

(vi) Section 7447 of the Internal Revenue Code;

(vii) 38 U.S.C. 7296;
