
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Annuitants and Compensationers
###### ยง 870.707 Reemployed annuitants and compensationers.

(a)(1) If an insured annuitant or compensationer is appointed to a position in which he or she is eligible for insurance, the amount of his or her Basic life insurance as a annuitant or compensationer (and any applicable withholdings) is suspended on the day before the 1st day in pay status under the appointment, unless the reemployed annuitant or compensationer waives all insurance coverage as an employee. The Basic insurance benefit payable upon the death of a reemployed annuitant or compensationer who has Basic insurance in force as an employee, cannot be less than the benefit that would have been payable if the individual had not been reemployed.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Basic insurance obtained as an employee stops with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right, on the date reemployment terminates. Any suspended Basic insurance (and any applicable withholdings) is reinstated on the day following termination of the reemployment.

(b) Basic insurance obtained during reemployment can be continued after the reemployment terminates if the individual:

(1) Qualifies for a supplemental annuity or receives a new retirement right (or if a compensationer, he or she worked an amount of time equivalent to that required for an annuitant to qualify for a supplemental annuity);

(2) Has had Basic insurance as an employee for at least 5 years of service immediately before separation from reemployment or for the full period(s) during which such coverage was available to the individual, whichever is less; and

(3) Does not convert to nongroup insurance when Basic insurance as an employee would otherwise terminate.

(c) If the Basic insurance obtained during reemployment is continued as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any suspended Basic life insurance stops, with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right.

(d)(1) An annuitant or compensationer appointed to a position in which he or she is eligible for Basic insurance is also eligible for Optional insurance as an employee, unless he or she has on file an uncancelled waiver of Basic or Optional insurance.

(2) If the individual has Option A or C as an annuitant, that insurance (and applicable withholdings) is suspended on the day before his or her 1st day in pay status under the appointment. Unless he or she waives Option A or C (or waives Basic insurance), the individual obtains Option A or C as an employee.

(3) If the individual has Option B as an annuitant or compensationer, that insurance (and applicable withholdings) continues as if the individual were not reemployed, unless:

(i) The individual files with his/her employing office an election of Option B, in a manner designated by OPM, within 60 calendar days after the date of reemployment. In this case Option B (and applicable withholdings) as an annuitant or compensationer is suspended on the date that Option B as an employee becomes effective; or

(ii) The individual waives Basic insurance.

(4) The Option B benefit payable upon the death of a reemployed annuitant or compensationer is the amount in effect as an annuitant or compensationer, unless the individual elected to have Option B as an employee.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the Optional insurance obtained as an employee stops, with no 31-day extension or conversion right, on the date reemployment terminates. The amount of suspended Optional insurance that remains in force after applicable monthly reductions after age 65 (and corresponding withholdings) is reinstated on the day after reemployment terminates.

(e) Optional life insurance obtained during reemployment may be continued after the reemployment terminates if the annuitant:

(1) Qualifies for a supplemental annuity or receives a new retirement right (or if a compensationer, he or she worked an amount of time equivalent to that required for an annuitant to qualify for a supplemental annuity);

(2) Continues Basic life insurance under ยง 870.703(a)(2), (3), or (4); and

(3) Has had Optional insurance as an employee for at least the 5 years of service immediately before separation from reemployment or for the full period(s) of service during which it was available to him or her, whichever is less.

(f) If Optional insurance obtained during reemployment is continued as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any suspended Optional insurance stops, with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right.

(g) If a reemployed annuitant or compensationer waives life insurance as an employee, the waiver also cancels his or her life insurance as an annuitant or compensationer.
