
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Order of Precedence and Designation of Beneficiary
###### § 870.802 Designation of beneficiary.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, if an insured individual wants benefits paid differently from the order of precedence, he/she must file a designation of beneficiary. A designation of beneficiary cannot be filed by anyone other than the insured individual. Exception: if the insurance has been assigned under subpart I of this part, the insured individual cannot designate a beneficiary; only the assignee(s) can designate beneficiaries.

(b) A designation of beneficiary must be in writing, signed by the insured individual, and witnessed and signed by 2 people. The completed designation of beneficiary form may be submitted to the appropriate office via appropriate methods approved by the employing office. The appropriate office must receive the designation before the death of the insured.

(1) For an employee, the appropriate office is the employing office.

(2) For an annuitant or compensationer, the appropriate office is OPM.

(c) A designation, change, or cancellation of beneficiary in a will or any other document not witnessed and filed as required by this section has no legal effect with respect to benefits under this chapter.

(d) A witness to a designation of beneficiary cannot be named as a beneficiary.

(e) Any individual, firm, corporation, or legal entity can be named as a beneficiary, except an agency of the Federal or District of Columbia Government.

(f) An insured individual (or an assignee) may change his/her beneficiary at any time without the knowledge or consent of the previous beneficiary. This right cannot be waived or restricted.

(g)(1) A designation of beneficiary is automatically cancelled 31 days after the individual stops being insured.

(2) An assignment under subpart I of this part automatically cancels an insured individual's designation of beneficiary.

(h) An insured individual may provide that a designated beneficiary is entitled to the insurance benefits only if the beneficiary survives him/her for a specified period of time (not more than 30 days). If the beneficiary doesn't survive for the specified period, insurance benefits will be paid as if the beneficiary had died before the insured.

(i)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, if a court order has been received in accordance with § 870.801(d), an insured individual cannot designate a different beneficiary, unless

(i) The person(s) named in the court order gives written consent for the change, or

(ii) The court order is modified.

(2) If a court order has been received in accordance with § 870.801(d), and the court order applies to only part of the insurance benefits, an insured individual can designate a different beneficiary to receive the insurance benefits that are not included under the court order. If the insured individual does not make a designation for these benefits and there is no previous valid designation on file, benefits will be paid according to the order of precedence shown in § 870.801(a).

(3) If a court order received in accordance with § 870.801(d) is subsequently modified without naming a new person to receive the benefits, and a certified copy of the modified court order is received by the appropriate office before the death of the insured, the insured individual can designate a beneficiary. Benefits will be paid according to the order of precedence shown in § 870.801(d) if the insured individual does not complete a new designation of beneficiary.
