
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Assignments of Life Insurance
###### ยง 870.907 Termination and conversion.

(a) Assigned insurance terminates under the conditions stated in subpart F of this part.

(b)(1) When an insured individual's insurance terminates, an assignee has the right to convert all or part of the group insurance to an individual policy on the insured individual. The conditions stated in subpart F of this part apply to assignees who elect to convert.

(2) When there is more than one assignee, each assignee has the right to convert all or part of his/her share of the insurance. Any assignee who doesn't convert loses all ownership of the insurance.

(3) When there is more than one assignee, the maximum amount of insurance each assignee will be able to convert is determined by the dollar amount corresponding to the assignee's share of the total insurance. This amount will be rounded up to the next higher thousand, if it's not already an even thousand dollar amount.

(4) Premiums for converted life insurance are based on the insured individual's age and class of risk at the time the conversion policy is issued.

(5) The employing office must notify each assignee of the conversion right at the time the assigned group insurance terminates.

(c) An assignment terminates 31 days after the insurance terminates, unless the insured individual is reemployed in or returns to a position in which he or she is entitled to coverage under this part within 31 days after the insurance terminates. If the individual returns to Federal service, Basic insurance and any Option A and/or Option B insurance acquired through returning to service is subject to the existing assignment.
