
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 870 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Assignments of Life Insurance
###### § 870.908 Annuitants and compensationers.

(a) If an employee assigns Basic insurance and later becomes eligible to continue such insurance coverage as an annuitant or compensationer as provided in § 870.701:

(1) At the time he/she retires or becomes eligible as a compensationer, the insured individual may elect unreduced or partially reduced insurance coverage as provided in § 870.702(a). This right remains with the insured individual and does not transfer to the assignee. Exception: if the insured individual elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee under subpart K of this part, he/she can only elect unreduced insurance coverage.

(2) After the individual has made the election described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the assignee (or, if more than one, all of the assignees acting together) may, at any time, elect to cancel the annuitant's or compensationer's election of increased coverage, as provided in § 870.702(b). The right to cancel the election transfers to the assignee; the annuitant or compensationer cannot cancel the election after making an assignment. Exception: if the individual elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee under subpart K of this part, the assignee(s) cannot cancel the election of unreduced insurance coverage.

(b) When more than one assignee has been named, at the time the insured individual becomes eligible to continue coverage as an annuitant or compensationer, some assignees may choose to convert their part of the insurance, while others may choose to continue the coverage during the insured individual's retirement or receipt of compensation. The amount of each type of continued insurance is determined by the total percentage of the shares of the assignees who choose to continue the coverage.

(c)(1) When an annuitant who has assigned his/her insurance is reemployed in a position in which he/she is entitled to life insurance coverage, the coverage he/she acquires as a reemployed annuitant is subject to the existing assignment.

(2) The right of a reemployed annuitant to elect Option B coverage as an employee rather than as an annuitant under § 870.705(d)(3) remains with the insured individual and does not transfer to the assignee. Any Option B coverage elected as an employee is subject to the existing assignment.
