
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 875 - FEDERAL LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### ยง 875.104 What are the steps required to resolve a dispute involving benefit eligibility or payment of a claim?

(a) If you dispute the Carrier's denial of your eligibility for benefits or your claim for payment of benefits, you must first send a written request for reconsideration to the Carrier no later than 60 days from the date of its decision.

(b) The Carrier must provide you with written notice of its review decision no later than 60 days after the date it receives your reconsideration request.

(c) If the Carrier upholds its denial (or does not respond within 60 days), you have the right to appeal its reconsideration decision directly to the Carrier. You must make this appeal in writing within 60 days from the date of the Carrier's notice upholding its decision. You will be notified of the decision on your appeal in writing no later than 60 days from receipt of your appeal request.

(d) If a denial of your eligibility for benefits or a denial of your claim is upheld upon appeal due to the evaluation of your medical condition/functional capacity, the Carrier will inform you that you may request that an independent third party, mutually agreed to by OPM and the Carrier, review the decision. You must make this request in writing within 60 days from the date of the notice informing you of the appeal decision. The independent third party must notify you in writing of its decision no later than 60 days from the Carrier's or its designee's receipt of your request for appeal to the third party. This is the final administrative remedy available to you. The decision of the independent third party is final and binding on the Carrier.

(e) You may seek judicial review of the final administrative denial of a claim. Such action may not be brought prior to exhaustion of the administrative process provided in this section. To pursue such judicial review, you must bring legal action against the Carrier in an appropriate United States district court within 2 years from the date of the final decision. You may not sue OPM, the independent reviewer, or any other entity. If you prevail in court, your recovery is limited to the amount of benefits payable under your benefit booklet and schedule of benefits.

(f) The procedures described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section apply only if you have valid coverage under the FLTCIP. If the Carrier determines that your coverage was based on an erroneous application and voids the coverage as described in ยง 875.408 of this part, these provisions do not apply. The Carrier will provide you with information on your review rights in its rescission letter (letter voiding your coverage).
