
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 875 - FEDERAL LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Coverage
###### ยง 875.406 May I change my coverage?

(a) You may make the following changes to your coverage:

(1) At any time outside of a suspension period described in ยง 875.110, you may apply to increase your coverage with full underwriting.

(2) If you increase your coverage by adding to your daily benefit amount, the premiums for the additional coverage will be based on your age, prevailing premium rates, and coverage rules in effect at the time you purchase the additional coverage.

(3) For other types of coverage increases, your entire premium will be based on your age, prevailing premium rates, and coverage rules in effect at the time you purchase the increased coverage. Any increase in coverage will take effect on the 1st day of the month following the date the Carrier approves your request for an increase.

(b) You may decrease your coverage at any time, although any decrease will be subject to coverage rules at the time of the decrease. Decreased coverage takes effect on the 1st day of the month after the Carrier receives your request. You will not receive any refund of premiums paid for coverage you held before the decrease; however, your subsequent premiums will be reduced based on your new, lower level of coverage. The Carrier will refund or credit any portion of premium paid in advance for the period following the date on which you decrease your coverage.

(c) You may cancel your coverage at any time.

(1) If you cancel during the free look period, your premiums will be refunded to you.

(2) If you cancel your coverage at any time other than during the free look period, cancellation will take effect on your requested cancellation date or at the end of the period covered by your last premium payment, whichever occurs first. You will not receive any refund of premiums paid, other than any premiums paid in advance for the period following the effective date of your cancellation of coverage, and you will not have to pay any more premiums unless you owed retroactive premiums.
