
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 297 - PRIVACY PROCEDURES FOR PERSONNEL RECORDS
##### Subpart E - Exempt Records
###### ยง 297.501 Exemptions.
####### Administrative Law Judge Applicant Records (OPM/CENTRAL-6).

(2)(i) All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirement of 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(3) and (d). The exemptions are claimed because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment. To the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the application of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentialty should the data subject request access to the accounting of disclosures of the record, or access to or amendment of the record.

(ii) All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of the records by the data subject. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing and examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Access to or amendment of this information by the data subject would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examing process.
