
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### ยง 890.105 Filing claims for payment or service.
####### Time limits for reconsidering a claim.

(b)(1) The covered individual has 6 months from the date of the notice to the covered individual that a claim (or a portion of a claim) was denied by the carrier in which to submit a written request for reconsideration to the carrier. The time limit for requesting reconsideration may be extended when the covered individual shows that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.

(2) The carrier has 30 days after the date of receipt of a timely-filed request for reconsideration to:

(i) Affirm the denial in writing to the covered individual;

(ii) Pay the bill or provide the service; or

(iii) Request from the covered individual or provider additional information needed to make a decision on the claim. The carrier must simultaneously notify the covered individual of the information requested if it requests additional information from a provider. The carrier has 30 days after the date the information is received to affirm the denial in writing to the covered individual or pay the bill or provide the service. The carrier must make its decision based on the evidence it has if the covered individual or provider does not respond within 60 days after the date of the carrier's notice requesting additional information. The carrier must then send written notice to the covered individual of its decision on the claim. The covered individual may request OPM review as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the carrier fails to act within the time limit set forth in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii).

(3) The covered individual may write to OPM and request that OPM review the carrier's decision if the carrier either affirms its denial of a claim or fails to respond to a covered individual's written request for reconsideration within the time limit set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The covered individual must submit the request for OPM review within the time limit specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(4) The carrier may extend the time limit for a covered individual's submission of additional information to the carrier when the covered individual shows he or she was not notified of the time limit or was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from submitting the additional information.
