
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### ยง 890.105 Filing claims for payment or service.
####### OPM review.

(e)(1) If the covered individual seeks further review of the denied claim, the covered individual must make a request to OPM to review the carrier's decision. Such a request to OPM must be made:

(i) Within 90 days after the date of the carrier's notice to the covered individual that the denial was affirmed;

(ii) If the carrier fails to respond to the covered individual as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, within 120 days after the date of the covered individual's timely request for reconsideration by the carrier; or

(iii) Within 120 days after the date the carrier requests additional information from the covered individual, or the date the covered individual is notified that the carrier is requesting additional information from a provider. OPM may extend the time limit for a covered individual's request for OPM review when the covered individual shows he or she was not notified of the time limit or was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from submitting the request for OPM review within the time limit.

(2) In reviewing a claim denied by the carrier, OPM may:

(i) Request that the covered individual submit additional information;

(ii) Obtain an advisory opinion from an independent physician;

(iii) Obtain any other information as may in its judgment be required to make a determination; or

(iv) Make its decision based solely on the information the covered individual provided with his or her request for review.

(3) When OPM requests information from the carrier, the carrier must release the information within 30 days after the date of OPM's written request unless a different time limit is specified by OPM in its request.

(4) Within 90 days after receipt of the request for review, OPM will either:

(i) Give a written notice of its decision to the covered individual and the carrier; or

(ii) Notify the individual of the status of the review. If OPM does not receive requested evidence within 15 days after expiration of the applicable time limit in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, OPM may make its decision based solely on information available to it at that time and give a written notice of its decision to the covered individual and to the carrier.

(5) OPM, upon its own motion, may reopen its review if it receives evidence that was unavailable at the time of its original decision.
