
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 297 - PRIVACY PROCEDURES FOR PERSONNEL RECORDS
##### Subpart E - Exempt Records
###### ยง 297.501 Exemptions.
####### Litigation and Claims Records (OPM/CENTRAL-7).

(3)(i) When litigation or claim cases occur, information from other existing systems of records may be incorporated into the case file. This information may be material for which exemptions have been claimed by the Office in this section. To the extent that such exempt material is incorporated into a litigation or claim case file, the appropriate exemption (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), or (7)) shall also apply to the material as it appears in this system. The exemptions will be only from those provisions of the Act that were claimed for the systems from which the records originated.

(ii) During the course of litigation or claims cases, it may be necessary to conduct investigations to develop information and evidence relevant to the case. These investigative records may include material meeting the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7). Such material is exempt from the requirement of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d). These provisions of the Act relate to making accounting of disclosures available to the data subject and access to and amendment of records. The specific applicability of the exemptions to this system and the reasons for the exemptions are:

(A) Such investigations may contain properly classified information that pertains to national defense and foreign policy obtained from another Federal agency. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to and amendment of suh classified information under 5 U.S.C 552a(d).

(B) Such investigations may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes othe than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), e.g., administration of the merit system, obtained from another Federal agency. All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria of 5 U.S.C 552a(k)(2) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to or amendment of those records.

(C) Such investigations may contain information obtained from another agency that relates to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to or amendment of records by the data subject. Application of exemption (k)(3) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to and amendment of such records.

(D) Such investigations may contain information that, by statute, is required to be maintained and used solely as a statistical record. Application of exemption (k)(4) may be necessary to ensure compliance with such a statutory mandate.

(E) All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (d). These exemptions are claimed because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment. To the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the application of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor such a promise should the data subject request access to the accounting of disclosure, or access to or amendment of the record, that would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

(F) All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of the records by the data subject. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing or examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Access to or amendment by the data subject of this information would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.

(G) Such investigations may contain evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services. Application of exemption (k)(7) may be necessary, but only to the extent that the disclosure of the data would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
