
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Administration and General Provisions
###### ยง 890.111 Continuation of eligibility for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.

(a) A Federal employee who was employed by the Department of Defense to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program as of the day before the date of the transfer of the Program to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety, and was offered and accepted employment by the Corporation as part of the transition described in section 1612(d) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 517, is deemed to be an employee for purposes of this part during continuous employment with the Corporation unless the individual files an election under ยง 831.206(c) or ยง 842.109(c) of this title. Such a covered individual is treated as if he or she were a Federal employee for purposes of this part, and of any other part within this title relating to the FEHB Program. The individual is entitled to the benefits of, and is subject to all conditions under, the FEHB Program on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.

(b) Cessation of employment with the Corporation for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under the FEHB Program as an employee during any subsequent employment by the Corporation.

(c) The Corporation must withhold from the pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section an amount equal to the premiums withheld from the pay of a Federal employee for FEHB coverage and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.

(d) The Corporation must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under the FEHB Program.
