
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Health Benefits Plans
###### ยง 890.203 Application for approval of, and proposal of amendments to, health benefit plans.
####### New plan applications.

(a)(1) The Director of OPM shall consider applications to participate in the FEHB Program from comprehensive medical plans (CMP's) at his or her discretion. CMP's are automatically invited to submit applications annually to participate in the FEHB Program unless otherwise notified by OPM. If the Director should determine that it is not beneficial to the enrollees and the Program to consider applications for a specific contract year, OPM will publish a notice with a 60 day comment period in theno less than 7 months prior to the date applications would be due for the specific contract year for which applications will not be accepted.

(2) When applications are considered, CMP's should apply for approval by writing to the Office of Personnel Management, Washington, DC 20415. Application letters must be accompanied by any descriptive material, financial data, or other documentation required by OPM. Plans must submit the letter and attachments in the OPM-specified format by January 31, or another date specified by OPM, of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted. Plans must submit evidence demonstrating they meet all requirements for approval by March 31 of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted. Plans that miss either deadline cannot be considered for participation in the next contract year. All newly approved plans must submit benefit and rate proposals to OPM by May 31 of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted in order to be considered for participation in that contract year. OPM may make counter-proposals at any time.

(3) OPM may approve such comprehensive medical plans as, in the judgment of OPM, may be in the best interest of enrollees in the Program. In addition to specific requirements set forth in 5 U.S.C. chapter 89, in chapter 1 and other relevant portions of title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and in other sections of this part, to be approved, an applicant plan must actually be delivering medical care at the time of application; must be in compliance with applicable State licensing and operating requirements; must not be a Federal, State, local, or territorial governmental entity; and must not be debarred, suspended, or ineligible to participate in Government contracting or subcontracting for any reason, including fraudulent health care practices in other Federal health care programs.

(4) Applications must identify those individuals who have the legal authority and responsibility to enter into and guarantee contracts. The applications will be reviewed for evidence of substantial compliance with the following standards:
