
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Health Benefits Plans
###### ยง 890.203 Application for approval of, and proposal of amendments to, health benefit plans.
####### Participating plans.

(b)Changes in rates and benefits for approved health benefits plans shall be considered at the discretion of the Director of OPM. If the Director of OPM determines that it is beneficial to enrollees and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program to invite health plan benefit and/or rate changes for a given contract period, a "call letter" shall be issued to the carrier approximately 9 months prior to the expiration of the current contract period. Any proposal for change shall be in writing, specifically describe the change proposed, and be signed by an authorized official of the carrier. OPM will review any requested proposal for change and will notify the carrier of its decision to accept or reject the change. OPM may make a counter proposal or at any time propose changes on its own motion. Benefits changes and rate proposals, when requested by OPM, shall be submitted not less than 7 months before the expiration of the then current contract period, unless the Director of OPM determines that a later date is acceptable. The negotiation period shall begin approximately 7 months before the expiration of the current contract period, and OPM shall seek to complete all benefit and rate negotiations no later than 4 months preceding the contract period to which they will apply. If OPM and the carrier do not reach agreement by this date, either party may give written notice of nonrenewal in accordance with ยง 890.205 of this part.
