
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Health Benefits Plans
###### ยง 890.204 Withdrawal of approval of health benefits plans or carriers.

(a) The Director may withdraw approval of a health benefits plan or carrier if the standards at ยง 890.201 of this part and 48 CFR subpart 1609.70 are not met. Such action carries with it the right to a hearing as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) Before withdrawing approval, the Director or his or her representative shall notify the carrier of the plan, by certified mail, that OPM intends to withdraw approval of the health benefits plan and/or carrier. The notice shall set forth the reasons why approval is to be withdrawn. The carrier is entitled to reply in writing within 15 calendar days after its receipt of the notice, stating the reasons why approval should not be withdrawn.

(2) On receipt of the reply, or in the absence of a timely reply, the Director or representative shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing. The carrier shall be notified by certified mail at least 15 calendar days in advance of the hearing. The hearing officer shall be the Director, or a representative designated by the Director, who shall not otherwise have been a party to the initial administrative decision to issue a letter of intent to withdraw the plan's or carrier's approval. The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing unless it is waived in writing by the carrier. The carrier is entitled to appear by representative and present oral or documentary evidence, including rebuttal evidence, in opposition to the proposed action.

(i) A transcribed record shall be kept of the hearing and shall be the exclusive record of the proceeding.

(ii) After the hearing is held, or after OPM's receipt of the carrier's written waiver of the hearing, the Director shall make a decision on the record, taking into consideration any recommendation submitted by the hearing officer, and send it to the carrier by certified mail. A decision of the Director shall be considered a final decision for the purposes of this section. The Director, or his or her representative, may set a future effective date for withdrawal of approval.

(3) The Director, or his or her representative, may give written notice of non-renewal of the contract of a carrier whose plan does not meet the minimum enrollee requirement in ยง 890.201(a)(11). However, the Director may defer withdrawing approval of a plan not meeting the requirement in ยง 890.201(a)(11) of this part when, in the judgment of OPM, the carrier shows good cause. The Director or representative may authorize a plan with fewer than 300 employees or annuitants to remain in the FEHB Program when he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that it is in the best interest of the Program (e.g., when the plan is the only plan available to enrollees in a rural area).

(b) During a current contract term, the Director, in his or her discretion, may reinstate approval of a plan or carrier under this section on a finding that the reasons for withdrawing approval no longer exist.
