
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Health Benefits Plans
###### ยง 890.205 Nonrenewal of contracts of health benefits plans.

(a) Either OPM or the carrier may terminate a contract by giving a written notice of nonrenewal which includes an indication of the reason for the intended action.

(b) Where termination by notice of intent not to renew is made by OPM, the carrier contesting that notice may request that OPM review the proposed decision. Such review shall be conducted by the Director or a representative designated by the Director, who shall not otherwise have been a party to the initial decision to issue a notice of intent not to renew. A request for such review, which may include a request that a representative of the carrier appear personally before OPM, shall be in writing. That request must be received within 10 calendar days of the carrier's receipt of the notice of intent not to renew. Such request shall include a detailed statement as to why the carrier disagrees with OPM's notice of nonrenewal and shall be accompanied by appropriate supporting documentation. Where a carrier has requested review under this section, the final decision by OPM not to renew a health benefits contract shall be communicated to the carrier in writing not more than 30 days after OPM's receipt of the carrier's request for review, unless a later date is mutually agreed upon.

(c) In the absence of a timely request for review as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, OPM's notice of intent not to renew will become final without further notification.
