
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.301 Opportunities for employees to enroll or change enrollment; effective dates.
####### Change in employment status.

(h)An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee's employment status changes. Except as otherwise provided, an employee must enroll or change the enrollment within 60 days after the change in employment status. Employment status changes include, but are not limited to-

(1) A return to pay status following loss of coverage under either-

(i) Section 890.304(a)(1)(v) due to the expiration of 365 days in leave without pay (LWOP) status, or

(ii) Section 890.502(b)(5) due to the termination of coverage during LWOP status.

(2) Reemployment after a break in service of more than 3 days.

(3) Restoration to a civilian position after serving in the uniformed services under conditions that entitle him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.

(4)(i) A change from a temporary appointment in which the employee is eligible to enroll under 5 U.S.C. 8906a, which requires payment of the full premium with no Government contribution, to an appointment that entitles the employee to receive the Government contribution.

(ii) A change in entitlement to Government contribution as a result of becoming eligible for coverage under ยง 890.102(j).

(5) Separation from Federal employment when the employee or the employee's spouse is pregnant and the employee supplies medical documentation of the pregnancy. An employee who enrolls or changes the enrollment under this paragraph (h)(5) must do so during his or her final pay period. The effective date of an enrollment or a change of enrollment under this paragraph (h)(5) is the first day of the pay period which the employing office receives an appropriate request to enroll or change the enrollment.

(6) A transfer from a post of duty within a State of the United States or the District of Columbia to a post of duty outside a State of the United States or the District of Columbia, or the reverse. An employee who enrolls or changes the enrollment under this paragraph (h)(6) must do so within the period beginning 31 days before leaving the old post of duty and ending 60 days after arriving at the new post of duty.

(7) A change, without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, to part-time career employment as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3401(2) and 5 CFR part 340, subpart B, or a change from such part-time career employment to full-time employment that entitles the employee to the full Government contribution.
