
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.301 Opportunities for employees to enroll or change enrollment; effective dates.
####### Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.

(i)An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee or an eligible family member of the employee loses coverage under this part or another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, an employee must enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage, and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage. Losses of coverage include, but are not limited to-

(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or a change to self plus one or to self only, of the covering enrollment.

(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program.

(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan.

(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan in whole or in part. For an employee who loses coverage under this paragraph (i)(4):

(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the employee must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the employee to change the enrollment.

(ii) If the whole plan is discontinued, an employee who does not change the enrollment within the time set in (i)(4)(i) of this section will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in paragraph (n) of this section;

(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, an employee who does not change the enrollment will be enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).

(iv) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, an employee must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If an employee does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the employee will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in paragraph (n) of this section. The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;

(v) An employee who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in paragraph (n) of this section, may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;

(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy.

(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan because an employee moves out of the commuting area to accept another position and the employee's non-federally employed spouse terminates employment to accompany the employee. An employee may enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date the employee leaves employment in the old commuting area and ending 180 days after entry on duty at place of employment in the new commuting area.

(7) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.
