
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 297 - PRIVACY PROCEDURES FOR PERSONNEL RECORDS
##### Subpart E - Exempt Records
###### ยง 297.501 Exemptions.
####### Recruiting, Examining, and Placement Records (OPM/GOVT-5).

(7)(i) All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d). These provisions of the Privacy Act relate to making accountings of disclosures available to the data subject and access to and amendment of records. These exemptions are claimed because this system contains investigative material compiled solely for determining the appropriateness of a request for approval of an objection to an eligible's qualification for employment in the Federal service. To the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the application of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentiality should the data subject request access to the accounting of disclosures of the record, or access to or amendment of the record.

(ii) All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(K)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to an amendment of records by the subject. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing or examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service and access to or amendment of this information by the data subject would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.
