
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.303 Continuation of enrollment.
####### Employee becomes a survivor annuitant.

(2)(i) If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his or her eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his or her own service, the employee is entitled to reinstatement of the enrollment as a survivor annuitant on application to the retirement office. Reinstatement as a survivor annuitant is effective on the day after the termination date of the employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise, reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant the amounts necessary to pay the health benefits premium.

(ii) If the surviving spouse of a deceased employee or annuitant is enrolled as an employee with a self plus one or self and family enrollment (or, if both the decedent and the surviving spouse were enrolled in a self only or self plus one enrollment) at the time the surviving spouse becomes a survivor annuitant and the surviving spouse is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment as a retiree, the surviving spouse is entitled to enroll as a survivor annuitant. The change from coverage as an employee to coverage as a survivor annuitant must be made within 30 days of separation from service.

(iii) Except for an employee who meets the definition of former spouse under 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) based on an individual's deferred annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f), the employee survivor of an annuitant receiving deferred retirement benefits is not eligible for FEHB Program enrollment as a survivor annuitant and therefore may not enroll as a survivor annuitant based on coverage obtained as an employee.
