
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 297 - PRIVACY PROCEDURES FOR PERSONNEL RECORDS
##### Subpart E - Exempt Records
###### ยง 297.501 Exemptions.
####### Personnel Research and Test Validation Records (OPM/GOVT-6).

(8)(i) All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of the records by the data subject. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing or examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Access to or amendment of this information by the data subject would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.

(ii) All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to or amendment of the records by the data subject. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to records required by statute to be maintained and used solely for statistical purposes. Access to or amendment of this information by the data subject would compromise the confidentiality of these records and their usefulness for statistical research purposes.

(c) The Office also reserves the right to assert exemptions for records received from another agency that could be properly claimed by that agency in responding to a request. The Office may refuse access to information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
