
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### § 890.303 Continuation of enrollment.
####### Former spouse entitled to coverage as employee or member of family.

(g)An individual entitled to health benefits as a former spouse who also has or becomes entitled to health benefits coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member under another enrollment under this part may defer or suspend coverage as a former spouse and continue his or her coverage as an employee or family member. The former spouse must have established entitlement to the health benefits coverage under § 890.803 of this part and filed all required documents with the employing office responsible for maintaining the former spouse enrollment within the time limits specified in § 890.805 of this part. The employing office shall note in the former spouse's file that the former spouse health benefits enrollment is being deferred or suspended until coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member ends. Upon loss of coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member, the individual is entitled to enroll or resume the enrollment as a former spouse, provided he or she remains eligible as such. A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part for a reason other than cancellation must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(2). A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part as a result of cancellation of the covering enrollment must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(4).
