
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### § 890.304 Termination of enrollment.
####### Employees.

(a)(1) An employee's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the earliest of the following dates:

(i) The last day of the pay period in which he/she is separated from the service other than by retirement under conditions entitling him/her to continue his/her enrollment.

(ii) The last day of the pay period in which he or she separates after meeting the requirements for an immediate annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of this chapter, but postpones receipt of annuity as provided by § 842.204(c).

(iii) The last day of the pay period in which his or her employment status or the eligibility of his or her position changes so that he or she is excluded from enrollment.

(iv) The last day of the pay period in which he dies, unless he leaves a member of the family entitled to continue enrollment as a survivor annuitant.

(v) The last day of the pay period which includes the day on which the continuation of enrollment under § 890.303(e) expires, or, if he/she is not entitled to any further continuation because he/she has not had 4 consecutive months of pay status since exhausting his/her 365 days' continuation of coverage in nonpay status, the last day of his/her last pay period in pay status.

(vi) The day he or she is separated, furloughed, or placed on leave of absence to serve in the uniformed services under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, provided the employee elects in writing to have the enrollment so terminated.

(vii) For an employee who separates to serve in the uniformed services under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, the date that is 24 months after the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, or the date entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends, whichever is earlier, unless the enrollment is terminated under paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.

(viii) For an employee who is furloughed or placed on leave of absence under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, the date that is 24 months after the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty to serve in the uniformed services, or the date entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends, whichever is earlier, but not earlier than the date the enrollment would otherwise terminate under paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.

(2) If the pay of a temporary employee eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan in which the employee is enrolled, and the employee does not, or cannot, elect a plan under § 890.301(l) at a cost to him or her not in excess of the pay, the employing office must terminate the employee's enrollment effective as of the end of the last period for which withholding was made. Each temporary employee whose enrollment is so terminated is entitled to a 31-day extension of coverage for conversion.
