
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.304 Termination of enrollment.
####### Annuitants.

(b)(1) If the annuity of an annuitant is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan in which the annuitant is enrolled, the annuitant may elect one of the two opportunities offered under ยง 890.306(q) of this part (electing a plan with a withholding not in excess of the annuity; or, paying premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with ยง 890.502(f) of this part). The retirement system will send two notices to the annuitant, including one by certified mail return receipt requested. Continuation of coverage rests upon electing direct payment or new coverage within 15 days (45 days for annuitants residing overseas) after receipt of the final notice. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the enrollment of an individual who fails to make an election within the specified time frame will be terminated. An annuitant whose enrollment is terminated because of failure to make an election may not reenroll or reinstate coverage, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each annuitant whose enrollment is so terminated is entitled to a 31-day extension of coverage for conversion.

(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making an election within the time limit after receipt of the final notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the retirement system. The retirement system will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, the individual's coverage may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination or prospectively. If the determination is negative, the individual may request reconsideration of the decision from OPM.

(3) If the annuitant does not make an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, the annuitant is deemed to have elected enrollment in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the standard option.

(4) An annuitant's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which he dies, unless he leaves a member of the family entitled to continue enrollment as a survivor annuitant, or, if his enrollment is not terminated by death, at midnight of the earliest of the following dates:

(i) The last day of the last pay period for which he is entitled to annuity, unless he is eligible for continued enrollment as an employee in which case his enrollment continues without change.

(ii) The last day of the pay period in which his title to compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, terminates, or in which he is held by the Secretary of Labor to be able to return to duty, unless he is eligible for continued enrollment as an employee or as an annuitant under a retirement system for civilian employees in which case his enrollment continues without change.

(iii) The day he enters on active duty in a uniformed service for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, provided the annuitant elects, in writing, to terminate the enrollment.

(iv) The last day of the month preceding the month in which a survivor annuitant in receipt of basic employee death benefits under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) remarries before attaining age 55.
