
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.304 Termination of enrollment.
####### Cancellation or suspension.

(d)(1)(i) An employee who participates in health insurance premium conversion as provided in part 892 of this chapter may cancel his or her enrollment only during an open season or because of and consistent with a qualifying life event defined in ยง 892.101 of this chapter.

(ii) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(iii) of this section, an enrollee who does not participate in premium conversion may cancel his or her enrollment at any time by filing an appropriate request with the employing office. The cancellation is effective at the end of the last day of the pay period in which the employing office receives the appropriate request canceling the enrollment.

(iii) An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in ยง 890.301(g)(3), or an annuitant who was subject to such a court or administrative order at the time of his or her retirement, may not cancel or suspend his or her enrollment as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and the enrollee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee or annuitant provides documentation to the agency that he or she has other coverage for the child or children.

(2) An annuitant or survivor annuitant may suspend enrollment in FEHB for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare-sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including coverage provided by the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life instead of FEHB coverage. To suspend FEHB coverage, documentation of eligibility for coverage under the non-FEHB program must be submitted to the retirement system. If the documentation is received within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 31 days after the effective date of the enrollment in the Medicare-sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar program, or within 31 days before or after the day designated by the annuitant or survivor annuitant as the day he or she wants to suspend FEHB coverage to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life instead of FEHB coverage, then suspension will be effective at the end of the day before the effective date of the enrollment or the end of the day before the day designated. Otherwise, the suspension is effective the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the retirement system receives the documentation.

(3) The enrollee and covered family members are not entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion or to convert to an individual contract for health benefits.
