
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.306 When can annuitants or survivor annuitants change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
####### Restoration of annuity or compensation payments.

(k)(1) A disability annuitant who was enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part immediately before his or her disability annuity was terminated because of restoration to earning capacity or recovery from disability, and whose disability annuity is restored under 5 U.S.C. 8337(e) after December 31, 1983, or 8455(b), may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of insurance eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request.

(2) An annuitant who was enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part immediately before his or her compensation was terminated because OWCP determined that he or she had recovered from the job-related injury or disease, and whose compensation is restored due to a recurrence of disability, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OWCP mails a notice of insurance eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period after the date OWCP receives the appropriate request.

(3) A surviving spouse who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because of remarriage, and whose survivor annuity is later restored, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on either-

(i) The first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request; or

(ii) The date of restoration of the survivor annuity or October 1, 1976, whichever is later.

(4) A surviving child who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because he or she ceased being a student, and whose survivor annuity is later restored, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request or the date of restoration of the survivor annuity, whichever is later.

(5) A surviving child who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because he or she married, and whose survivor annuity is later restored because the marriage ended, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request or the date of restoration of the survivor annuity, whichever is later.

(6) A surviving spouse who received a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) and who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before remarriage prior to age 55, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part upon termination of the remarriage. The survivor must provide OPM with a certified copy of the notice of death or the court order terminating the marriage. The surviving spouse must enroll within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request and the notice of death or court order terminating the remarriage.
