
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### § 890.306 When can annuitants or survivor annuitants change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
####### Annuity insufficient to pay withholdings.

(q)(1) If an annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan that the annuitant is enrolled in, the retirement system must provide the annuitant with information regarding the available plans and written notification of the opportunity to either-

(i) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.502(d); or

(ii) Enroll in any plan in which the annuitant's share of the premium is less than the amount of annuity. If the annuitant elects to change to a lower cost enrollment, the change takes effect immediately upon loss of coverage under the prior enrollment. The exemptions from debt collection procedures that are provided under § 831.1305(d)(2) and § 845.205(d)(2) of this chapter apply to elections under this paragraph (q)(1)(ii).

(2) If the annuitant is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, and does not change the enrollment to a plan in which the annuitant's share of the premium is less than the amount of annuity or does not elect to pay premiums directly, the annuitant is deemed to have enrolled in the standard option of the same plan, unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the standard option.

(3) An annuitant whose enrollment was terminated because the amount of annuity was insufficient to cover the enrollee's share of the premium may apply to be reinstated in any available plan or option.

(4) An annuitant who can show evidence that he or she previously changed to a lower cost option, plan, or to a self-only enrollment prior to May 29, 1990, because the annuity was insufficient to cover the withholdings for the plan in which he or she was enrolled, may apply to change the enrollment to any available plan or option in which the enrollee's share of the total premium exceeds his or her monthly annuity.

(5) The effective date of the reinstatement of enrollment of an annuitant whose enrollment was terminated, or the change of enrollment of an annuitant who previously changed enrollment because his or her annuity was insufficient to cover the annuitant's share of the total premium, and who elects to pay premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.502(f) is either-

(i) The first day of the first pay period that begins after the appropriate request is received by the retirement system; or,

(ii) The later of the date the enrollment was terminated or changed, or May 29, 1990.

(6) Retroactive reinstatement or change of enrollment is contingent upon payment of appropriate contributions retroactive to the effective date of the reinstatement or the change of enrollment. For the purpose of this paragraph (q)(6), a previous cancellation of enrollment because of insufficient annuity to cover the full amount of the withholdings is deemed to be a termination of enrollment.
