
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.307 Waiver or suspension of annuity or compensation.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section, when annuity or compensation is entirely waived or suspended, the annuitant's enrollment continues for not more than 3 months (not more than 12 weeks for annuitants whose compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, is paid each 4 weeks). If the waiver or suspension continues beyond this period, the employing office will notify the annuitant in writing that the employing office will terminate the enrollment effective at the end of the period, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, unless the annuitant elects to make payment of the premium directly to the employing office during the period of waiver. If the annuitant elects to have the enrollment terminated, the employing office automatically reinstates the enrollment on a prospective basis when the annuitant again receives payment of annuity or compensation. The employing office will make the withholding for the period of waiver or suspension during which enrollment was continued (i.e., 3 months or less).

(b) If the annuitant elects to pay premiums directly, he or she must send to the employing office his or her share of the subscription charge for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, exclusive of the 31-day temporary extension of coverage for conversion provided in ยง 890.401. The annuitant must pay after each pay period he or she is covered in accordance with a schedule established by the employing office. If the employing office does not receive payment by the date due, the employing office must notify the annuitant in writing that continuation of coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for annuitants residing overseas) after receipt of the notice. If no further payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for annuitants residing overseas). The employing office automatically reinstates enrollment on a prospective basis when payment of annuity or compensation resumes.

(c) If the annuitant is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying within 15 days after receipt of the notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office. The annuitant must file the request within 30 calendar days from the date of termination, and must include supporting documentation. The employing office will determine if the annuitant is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, reinstate the coverage of the annuitant retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the annuitant may request a review of the decision as provided in ยง 890.104.

(d) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame established in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which the employing office timely received payment.

(e) The employing office will submit all direct premium payments along with its regular health benefits premiums to OPM in accordance with procedures established by OPM.

(f) If suspension of annuity or compensation is because of reemployment, the reemploying office must make the withholding currently and enrollment continues during reemployment.
