
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.308 Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.
####### Carrier disenrollment: Enrollment reconciliation.

(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a carrier that cannot reconcile its record of an individual's enrollment with agency enrollment records or does not receive documentation necessary to resolve the discrepancy from the employing office within 31 days of a request must provide written notice to the individual that the employing office of record does not show him or her as enrolled in the carrier's plan and that he or she will be disenrolled 31 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation to resolve the discrepancy. Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, a copy of the Standard Form 2809 (basic enrollment document) (or a letter confirming an electronic transaction), the Standard Form 2810 transferring the enrollment into the gaining employing office (or the equivalent electronic submission), copies of earnings and leave statements or annuity statements showing withholdings for the health benefits plan, or a document or other credible information from the enrollee's employing office stating that the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan and that the premiums are being paid. After receiving documentation from the enrollee, the carrier must notify both the enrollee and the employing office of record of their decision on the information.

(2) If the carrier does not receive documentation required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section within the specified time frame, the carrier should disenroll the individual, without further notice.

(3) The enrollee may request his or her employing office to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, retirement claim number. The employing office must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to disenroll the individual is made.

(4) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed within 60 calendar days after the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.

(5) After reconsideration, the employing office must issue a written notice of its final decision to the individual and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the employing office determines the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.

(6) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
