
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.308 Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.
####### Carrier disenrollment: Child survivor annuitant.

(c)(1) When a child survivor annuitant covered under a self only enrollment reaches age 22, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual effective with the date set forth in ยง 890.304(c)(1) unless records with the carrier indicate that the child is incapable of self support due to a physical or mental disability. The carrier must provide the enrollee with a written notice of disenrollment prescribed or approved by OPM prior to the date set forth in ยง 890.304(c)(1).

(2) The child survivor annuitant may request the retirement system to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other identifier, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and the survivor annuity claim number. The retirement system must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual is made.

(3) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed with the retirement system within 60 calendar days from the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.

(4) After reconsideration, the retirement system must issue a written notice of its final decision to the child survivor annuitant and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the retirement system determines that he or she is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.

(5) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another provision of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
