
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Enrollment
###### ยง 890.308 Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.
####### Employing office and OPM removal from enrollment: Ineligible individuals.

(f)(1) An enrollee's employing office or OPM may request verification of eligibility from the enrollee at any time of an individual who is covered as a family member of the enrollee in accordance with ยง 890.302. To verify eligibility, the employing office or OPM shall send the enrollee a request for appropriate documentation of the individual's relationship to the enrollee. The request shall contain a written notice that the individual will no longer be covered 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation as requested. If the employing office or OPM, as applicable, does not receive the requested documentation within the specified time frame or if based on the documentation provided the individual is found not to be eligible, the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall direct the carrier to remove the individual from the enrollment and the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall provide written notice of the removal to the enrollee, with a copy to the carrier, including an explanation of the process for seeking reconsideration. The time limit to provide appropriate documentation may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows to the employing office or OPM, as appropriate, that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from providing timely documentation.

(2) Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of birth certificates, marriage certificates, and, if applicable, other proof including that the individual lives with the enrollee and that the enrollee is the individual's primary source of financial support.

(3) The effective date of the removal shall be prospective unless the record shows that the enrollee or the removed individual has committed fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan. If fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact is found, the effective date of the removal is the date of loss of eligibility.

(4) The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office or OPM's decision to remove the individual from the enrollment within 60 days of an employing office or OPM's initial decision. The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office decision to the employing office or an OPM decision to OPM. The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, the individual's name, the name of the enrollee's carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, the enrollee's retirement claim number.

(5) The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must issue a written notice of its final decision to the enrollee, and notify the carrier of the decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based.

(6) If an enrollee or the removed individual provides acceptable proof of eligibility of an individual subsequent to removal, coverage under the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in coverage, as appropriate.
