
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Temporary Extension of Coverage and Conversion
###### ยง 890.401 Temporary extension of coverage and conversion.
####### Continuation of benefits.

(b)(1) Any person who has been granted a 31-day extension of coverage in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and who is confined in a hospital or other institution for care or treatment on the 31st day of the temporary extension is entitled to continuation of the benefits of the plan during the continuance of the confinement but not beyond the 60th day after the end of the temporary extension.

(2) Except when a plan is discontinued in whole or in part or the Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance orders an enrollment change, a person whose enrollment has been changed from one plan to another, or from one option of a plan to the other option of that plan, and who is confined to a hospital or other institution for care or treatment on the last day of enrollment under the prior plan or option, is entitled to continuation of the benefits of the prior plan or option during the continuance of the confinement. Continuation of benefits shall not extend beyond the 91st day after the last day of enrollment in the prior plan or option. The plan or option to which enrollment has been changed shall not pay benefits with respect to that person while he or she is entitled to any inpatient benefits under the prior plan or option. The gaining plan or option shall begin coverage according to the limits of its FEHB Program contract on the day after the day all inpatient benefits have been exhausted under the prior plan or option or the 92nd day after the last day of enrollment in the prior plan or option, whichever is earlier. For the purposes of this paragraph, "exhausted" means paid or provided to the maximum benefit available under the contract.
