
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Temporary Extension of Coverage and Conversion
###### ยง 890.401 Temporary extension of coverage and conversion.
####### Exception.

(3)The limit on the number of confinement days allowed to be covered under the continuation of benefits specified by paragraph (b)(2) of this subpart does not apply to confinements in a hospital or other institution when the charges and benefit payments for the services provided are covered by the limit specified in subpart I of this part. In these cases, the benefits continue until the end of the confinement.

(c)(1) The employing agency must notify the enrollee of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert to an individual policy within 60 days after the date the enrollment terminates.

(2) The individual whose enrollment terminates must request conversion information from the losing carrier within 31 days of the date of the agency notice of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert.

(3) When an agency fails to provide the notification required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section within 60 days of the date the enrollment terminates, or the individual fails for other reasons beyond his or her control to request conversion as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, he or she may request conversion to an individual policy by writing directly to the carrier. Such a request must be filed within 6 months after the individual became eligible to convert his or her group coverage and must be accompanied by verification of termination of the enrollment; e.g., an SF 50, showing the individual's separation from the service. In addition, the individual must show that he or she was not notified of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert, and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to convert. The carrier will determine if the individual is eligible to convert; and when the determination is affirmative, the individual may convert within 31 days of the determination. If the determination by the carrier is negative, the individual may request a review of the carrier's determination from OPM.

(4) When an individual converts his or her coverage anytime after the group coverage has ended, the individual plan coverage is retroactive to the day following the day the temporary extension of group coverage ended. The individual must pay the premiums due for the retroactive period.

(5) An individual who fails to exercise his or her rights to convert to an individual policy within 31 days after receiving notice of the right to convert from the carrier is deemed to have declined the right to convert unless the carrier, or, upon review, OPM determines the failure was for cause beyond his or her control.
