
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Contributions and Withholdings
###### ยง 890.502 Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
####### Employee and annuitant withholdings and contributions.

(a)(1) Employees and annuitants are responsible for paying the enrollee share of the cost of enrollment for every pay period during which they are enrolled. An employee or annuitant incurs a debt to the United States in the amount of the proper employee or annuitant withholding required for each pay period during which they are enrolled if the appropriate health benefits withholdings or direct premium payments are not made.

(2) An individual is not required to pay withholdings for the period between the end of the pay period in which he or she separates from service and the commencing date of an immediate annuity, if later.

(3) Temporary employees who are eligible to enroll under 5 U.S.C. 8906a must pay the full subscription charges including both the employee share and the Government contribution. Employees with provisional appointments under ยง 316.403 of this chapter are not considered eligible for coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8906a for the purpose of this paragraph.

(4) The employing office must calculate the withholding for employees whose annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 workweeks on an annual basis and prorate the withholding over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.

(5) The employing office must make the withholding required from enrolled survivor annuitants in the following order. First, withhold from the annuity of a surviving spouse, if there is one. If that annuity is less than the amount required, withhold to the extent necessary from the annuity of the youngest child, and if necessary, from the annuity of the next older child, in succession, until the withholding is met.

(6) Surviving spouses who have a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) and annuitants whose health benefits premiums are more than the amount of their annuities may pay their portion of the health benefits premium directly to the retirement system acting as their employing office, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
