
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Contributions and Withholdings
###### ยง 890.502 Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
####### Procedures when an employee enters a leave without pay (LWOP) status or pay is insufficient to cover premium.

(b)The employing office must tell the employee about available health benefits choices as soon as it becomes aware that an employee's premium payments cannot be made because he or she will be or is already in a leave without pay (LWOP) status or any other type of nonpay status. (This does not apply when nonpay is as a result of a lapse of appropriations.) The employing office must also tell the employee about available choices when an employee's pay is not enough to cover the premiums.

(1) The employing office must give the employee written notice of the choices and consequences as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and will send a letter by first class mail if it cannot give it to the employee directly. If it mails the notice, it is deemed to be received within 5 days.

(2) The employee must elect in writing to either continue health benefits coverage or terminate it. (Exception: An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in ยง 890.301(g)(3) cannot elect to terminate his or her enrollment as long as the court/administrative order is still in effect and the employee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee provides documentation that he or she has other coverage for the child(ren).) The employee may continue coverage by choosing one of the following ways to pay and returning the signed form to the employing office within 31 days after he or she receives the notice (45 days for an employee residing overseas). When an employee mails the signed form, its postmark will be used as the date the form is returned to the employing office. If an employee elects to continue coverage, he or she must elect in writing one of the following:

(i) Pay the premium directly to the agency and keep the payments current. The employee must also agree that if he or she does not pay the premiums currently, the employing office will recover the amount of accrued unpaid premiums as a debt under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If the employee does not wish to pay the premium directly to the agency and keep payments current, he or she may agree that upon returning to employment or upon pay becoming sufficient to cover the premiums, the employing office will deduct, in addition to the current pay period's premiums, an amount equal to the premiums for a pay period during which the employee was in a leave without pay (LWOP) status or pay was not enough to cover premiums. The employing office will continue using this method to deduct the accrued unpaid premiums from salary until the debt is recovered in full. The employee must also agree that if he or she does not return to work or the employing office cannot recover the debt in full from salary, the employing office may recover the debt from whatever other sources it normally has available for recovery of a debt to the Federal Government.

(3) If the employee does not return the signed form within the time period described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the employing office will terminate the enrollment and notify the employee in writing of the termination.

(4)(i) If the employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from returning a signed form to the employing office within the time period described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, he or she may write to the employing office and request reinstatement of the enrollment. The employee must describe the circumstances that prevented him or her from returning the form. The request for reinstatement must be made within 30 calendar days from the date the employing office gives the employee notice of the termination. The employing office will determine if the employee is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the employing office will reinstate the coverage of the employee retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the employee may request a review of the decision from the employing agency (see ยง 890.104).

(ii) If the employee is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in ยง 890.301(g)(3), the coverage cannot terminate. If the employee does not return the signed form, the coverage will continue and the employee will incur a debt to the Federal Government as discussed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(5) Terminations of enrollment under paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section are retroactive to the end of the last pay period in which the premium was withheld from pay. The employee and covered family members, if any, are entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion and may convert to an individual contract for health benefits. An employee whose coverage is terminated may enroll upon his or her return to duty in pay status in a position in which the employee is eligible for coverage under this part.
