
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Contributions and Withholdings
###### ยง 890.502 Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
####### Direct premium payments for annuitants.

(d)(1) If an annuity, excluding an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 84 (Thrift Savings Plan), is too low to cover the health benefits premium, or if a surviving spouse receives a basic employee death benefit, the retirement system must provide written information to the annuitant or surviving spouse. The information must describe the health benefits plans available, and include the opportunity to either:

(i) Enroll in a health benefits plan in which the enrollee's share of the premium is less than the annuity amount; or

(ii) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system.

(2) The retirement system must accept direct payment for health benefits premiums in these circumstances. The annuitant or surviving spouse must continue direct payment of the premium even if the annuity increases to the extent that it covers the premium.

(3) The annuitant or surviving spouse must pay the retirement system his or her share of the premium for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, except for the 31-day temporary extension of coverage. The individual must make the payment after each pay period in which he or she is covered using a schedule set up by the retirement system. If the retirement system does not receive payment by the due date, it must notify the individual in writing that continued coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for annuitants or surviving spouses residing overseas) after the notice is received. If no subsequent payments are made, the retirement system terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for annuitants or surviving spouses residing overseas). An annuitant or surviving spouse whose enrollment terminated due to nonpayment of premium may not reenroll or reinstate coverage unless there are circumstances beyond his or her control as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(4) If the annuitant or surviving spouse is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying the premium within 15 days after receiving the notice, he or she may ask the retirement system to reinstate the enrollment by writing the retirement system. The individual must describe the circumstances and send the request within 30 calendar days from the termination date. The retirement system will determine if the annuitant or surviving spouse is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the retirement system will reinstate the coverage retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, then the individual may request a review of the decision from the retirement system, as described in ยง 890.104.

(5) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which payment was timely received.

(6) The retirement system will submit all direct premium payments along with its regular health benefits premiums to OPM according to procedures established by OPM.
