
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Contributions and Withholdings
###### ยง 890.502 Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
####### Procedures for direct payment of premiums during LWOP after 365 days.

(e)(1) An employee who is granted leave without pay (LWOP) under subpart L of part 630 of this chapter (Family and Medical Leave) after 365 days of continued coverage under ยง 890.303(e) must pay the employee contributions directly to the employing office and keep payments current.

(2) The employee must make payments after the pay period in which the employee is covered according to a schedule set up by the employing office. If the employing office does not receive the payment by the date due, it must notify the employee in writing that continued coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for employees residing overseas) after the notice is received. If no subsequent payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for enrollees residing overseas).

(3) If the enrollee was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making payment within the timeframe in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, he or she may ask the employing office to reinstate the enrollment by writing to the employing office. The employee must file the request within 30 calendar days from the date of termination and must include supporting documentation.

(4) The employing office determines whether the employee is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the employing office will reinstate the coverage of the employee retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the employee may request the employing agency to review the decision as provided under ยง 890.104.

(5) An employee whose coverage is terminated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section may enroll if he or she returns to duty in a pay status in a position in which the employee is eligible for coverage under this part.
