
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Contributions and Withholdings
###### ยง 890.503 Reserves.
####### OPM/carrier reserve transfers.

(3)The target level for total reserves of an experience-rated plan is 3times an amount equal to the sum of an average month's paid claims plus an average month's administrative expenses and retentions. Reserves include funds set aside for incurred-but-unpaid benefit claims and the "special" reserve representing the cumulative difference between income to the plan (subscription income plus interest on investments) and plan expenses (benefit costs plus administrative expenses and retentions). Included as carrier reserves is the balance in the letter of credit (LOC) account maintained by OPM for the plan. For the purposes of this section, an average month's paid claims is one-sixth of the total claims paid during the last 6 months of the most recent contract period, and an average month's administrative expenses and retentions is one-twelfth of the administrative expenses and retentions for the most recent contract period.

(i) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all the reserves for an experience-rated plan is less than the target level described in the first four sentences of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the carrier is entitled to payment from the contingency reserve. Such contingency reserve payment shall equal the lesser of: An amount equal to the difference between the target level for the plan's reserves and the total of the reserves for the plan, or an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. OMP must authorize this payment promptly after accepting the accounting statement for the contract period. The contingency reserve payment so authorized will be made available to the carrier's LOC account.

(ii) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all reserves of an experience-rated plan amounts to more than the plan's target level, the excess over the plan's target level must be credited to the contingency reserve maintained by OPM for the plan. OPM will withdraw the excess amount from the plan's LOC account, based on reporting in the annual accounting statement for the year, no sooner than May 1, of the following year. If the accounting statement is not filed by the time limit specified in the plan's contract with OPM, OPM will estimate the amount of the excess reserves and may withdraw that amount from the plan's LOC account, or begin the process of offsetting that amount from subscription payments, no sooner than May 1. The amount withdrawn from the plan's LOC account, or offset from subscription payments, will be credited to that plan's contingency reserve.

(4) OPM may, by agreement with the carrier, approve community rating for a comprehensive plan. If the contingency reserve of the carrier of a community-rated plan exceeds the preferred minimum balance, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the carrier may request OPM to pay to the plan a portion of the reserve not greater than the excess of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. The carrier shall state the reason for the request. OPM will decide whether to allow the request in whole or in part and will advise the plan of its decision.
