
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### § 890.805 Application time limitations.

(a) Except for former spouses meeting the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) and (v) of this part, former spouses must apply for health benefits coverage-

(1) Within 60 days after dissolution of the marriage to the Federal employee; or

(2) Within 60 days after the date of OPM's notice of eligibility to enroll based on entitlement to one of the following:

(i) A former spouse annuity elected under 5 U.S.C. 8339(j)(3), 5 U.S.C. 8417(b), or 5 CFR 831.682;

(ii) A former spouse annuity under § 831.683;

(iii) A former spouse insurable interest annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8339(k)(1) or 8420(a);

(iv) A former spouse annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f);

(v) An apportionment under 5 U.S.C. 8345(j) or 8467; or

(3) Within 60 days after the date of the notice of eligibility to enroll based on entitlement to a former spouse annuity under another retirement system for Government employees.

(b) Former spouses who meet the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3)(iv) of this part must apply for health benefits coverage by April 1, 1987. Where circumstances warrant, the former spouse may request that the filing date be waived. The authority of the Director of Central Intelligence to direct OPM to waive the filing date has been delegated to CIA's Office of Personnel. Requests for waiver should be addressed to the Office of Personnel, Retirement Division, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505. OPM will waive the April 1, 1987, filing date upon notification to do so from the Director of Central Intelligence.

(c) Former spouses who meet the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part must apply for health benefits coverage by October 7, 1988. Where circumstances warrant, the former spouse may request the Secretary of State to waive the filing date. The authority of the Secretary of State to waive the filing date has been delegated to the Department of State's Retirement Division. Requests for waiver should be addressed to the Department of State, Retirement Division, Washington, DC 20520. OPM will accept the waiver upon notification to do so from the Department of State.
