
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### § 890.807 When do enrollments terminate, cancel or suspend?

(a)(1) Except for former spouses meeting the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) and (v) of this part, a former spouse's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the earliest of the following events occurs:

(i) Court order ceases to provide entitlement to survivor annuity or portion of retirement annuity under a retirement system for Government employees.

(ii) Former spouse remarries before age 55.

(iii) Former spouse dies.

(iv) Employee or annuitant on whose service the benefits are based dies and no survivor annuity is payable.

(v) Separated employee on whose service the benefits are based dies before the requirements for deferred annuity have been met.

(vi) Employee on whose service benefits are based leaves Federal service before establishing title to an immediate annuity or a deferred annuity.

(vii) Refund of retirement money is paid to the separated employee on whose service the health benefits are based.

(2) OPM may authorize a longer time frame for the temporary extension of coverage for conversion than the 31 days provided in § 890.401(a) if in OPM's judgment the former spouse could not have known that (1) the employee on whose service benefits are based left Federal service before establishing title to an immediate or deferred annuity; or (2) the separated employee on whose service the benefits are based died before the requirements for deferred annuity had been met. In such cases, the right of conversion may be exercised up to 31 days after the employing office's notice of termination. The former spouse must pay the full premium (employee's and Government's share) during the extended period, exclusive of the 31-day period following the notice.

(3) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame established in accordance with § 890.808(d)(1) is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which payment has been timely received.

(4) A former spouse whose enrollment is terminated under this paragraph may not reenroll.

(b) The enrollment of a former spouse who meets the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) or (v) of this part terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the earliest of the following events occurs:

(1) Former spouse remarries before age 55.

(2) Former spouse dies.
