
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### ยง 890.807 When do enrollments terminate, cancel or suspend?
####### Failure to make an election under ยง 890.806(m).

(c)(1) If the annuity is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge due for the plan in which the former spouse is enrolled, the former spouse may elect one of the two opportunities offered under ยง 890.806(m) (electing a plan with a full subscription charge that is less than the annuity; or paying premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with ยง 890.808(d)). Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section the enrollment of a former spouse who fails to make an election within the specified time frame will be terminated.

(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making an election within the time limit after receipt of the final notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the retirement system. The retirement system will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, the individual's coverage may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination or prospectively. If the determination is negative, the individual may request reconsideration of the decision from OPM.

(3) If the former spouse does not make an election under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, the former spouse is deemed to have elected enrollment in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the full withholdings for the standard option.
