
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### ยง 890.807 When do enrollments terminate, cancel or suspend?
####### Cancellation.

(e)(1) A former spouse may cancel his or her enrollment at any time by filing an appropriate request with the employing office. The cancellation takes effect on the last day of the pay period in which the appropriate request cancelling the enrollment is received by the employing office.

(2) A former spouse may suspend enrollment in FEHB for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage. To suspend FEHB coverage, documentation of eligibility for coverage under the non-FEHB Program must be submitted to the employing office or retirement system. If the documentation is received within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 31 days after the effective date of the enrollment in the Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar program, or within 31 days before or after the day designated by the former spouse as the day he or she wants to suspend FEHB coverage to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage, then the suspension will be effective at the end of the day before the effective date of the enrollment or the end of the day before the day designated. Otherwise, the suspension is effective the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office or retirement system receives the documentation.

(3) The former spouse and family members, if any, are not entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion or to convert to an individual contract for health benefits.

(4) A former spouse who cancels his or her enrollment for any reason may not later reenroll in the FEHB Program.
