
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### § 890.808 Employing office responsibilities.
####### Administration of the enrollment process.

(b)(1) The employing office will set up a method for accepting applications for enrollment informing the former spouse what documents to submit and where to submit them for an eligibility determination, and collecting premium payments. The method will include procedures for verifying the eligibility requirements under § 890.803(a) (1) and (2) of this part. The employing office must obtain OPM, Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System (FSRDS), or CIA Retirement and Disability System (CIARDS) documentation that the former spouse meets the additional requirement under § 890.803(a)(3) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this part. A request for the retirement system's determination whether a court order is a qualifying court order for health benefits enrollment under this subpart must be accompanied by the documentation specified in § 838.221, § 838.721, or § 838.1005 of this chapter.

(2) The employing office will send the former spouse notice, in writing, of its decision. When an employing office informs a former spouse of his or her eligibility to enroll, it will identify the documents on which it based its decision and will include a premium payment schedule and statement of the requirements for continued enrollment under § 890.803. If the former spouse does not qualify for health benefits coverage, the employing office must give the former spouse a reconsideration right under § 890.104. Reconsideration requests from former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(iv) of this part must be directed to the Office of Personnel, Retirement Division, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505. Reconsideration requests from former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part must be directed to the Department of State, Retirement Division, Washington, DC 20520.

(3) The agency employing office will maintain a health benefits file for the former spouse as a file separate from the personnel records of the employee or former employee. The retirement system acting as employing office for the former spouse may file the former spouse health benefits records in with the annuitant's retirement records.

(4) The former spouse will be required to certify that he or she meets the requirements listed in § 890.803 and that he or she will notify the employing office within 31 days of an event that results in failure to meet one or more of the requirements.
