
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Benefits for Former Spouses
###### § 890.808 Employing office responsibilities.
####### Premium payments.,pay period

(d)(1) The former spouse must remit to the employing office the full subscription charge for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, exclusive of the 31-day temporary extension of coverage for conversion provided in §§ 890.401 and 890.807(a)(2). Payment must be made after the pay period in which the former spouse is covered in accordance with a schedule established by the employing office (see definition ofunder § 890.101(a)). If the employing office does not receive payment by the due date the employing office must notify the former spouse in writing that continuation of coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for enrollees residing overseas) after receipt of the notice. If no subsequent payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days (90 days for enrollees residing overseas) after the date of the notice. Termination for nonpayment of premium is considered a voluntary cancellation under § 890.807(d). A former spouse whose enrollment is terminated because of nonpayment of premium may not reenroll or reinstate coverage except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making payment within 15 days after receipt of the notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office. Such a request must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of termination and must be accompanied by verification that the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying within the time limit. The employing office will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, the individual's coverage may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the individual may request a review of the decision from the employing agency as provided under § 890.104.

(3) The employing office will submit all premium payments collected from former spouses along with its regular health benefits payments to OPM in accordance with procedures established by that Office.
