
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Temporary Continuation of Coverage
###### § 890.1104 Notification by agency.

(a) In the case of a former employee who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(1), the employing office must notify the former employee concerning his or her rights under this subpart no later than 30 days after the end of the temporary extension of coverage provided under § 890.401.

(b)(1) In the case of a child who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(2), the enrollee may, within 60 days after the qualifying event, provide written notice to the employing office of the child's change in status and requesting information about temporary continuation of coverage. The written notice must include the child's name and address and the date of the terminating event.

(2) If the notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is received by the employing office within 60 days after the date on which the child ceased meeting the requirements for being considered a covered family member, the employing office must notify the child of his or her rights under this subpart within 14 days after receiving the notice.

(3) This paragraph does not preclude the employing office from notifying the child of his or her rights based on oral or written notification by the child, another family member, or any other source that the child no longer meets the requirements for being considered a covered family member.

(c)(1) In the case of a former spouse who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3), the employee or the former spouse may, within 60 days after the termination of the marriage or the loss of coverage under subpart H of this part, notify the employing office of the terminating event and request information about temporary continuation of coverage. The notice must include the name and address of the former spouse and the date of the terminating event.

(2) The employing office must notify the former spouse of his or her rights under this subpart within 14 days after receiving the notice described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(d) If the employing office cannot give the notice required by this section to the employee, child, or former spouse directly, it must send the notice by first class mail. A notice that is mailed is deemed to be received 5 days after the date of the notice.
