
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart L - Benefits for United States Hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and United States Hostages Captured in Lebanon
###### ยง 890.1203 Coverage.

(a) An individual is covered under this subpart when the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is eligible for coverage under section 599C of Public Law 101-513.

(b) An individual who is covered under this subpart is covered under the Standard Option of the Service Benefit Plan. The individual has a self and family enrollment unless the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is married and has no eligible children, or is unmarried and has one eligible child, in which case the individual is covered under a self plus one enrollment, or unless the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is unmarried and has no eligible children, in which case the individual has a self only enrollment.

(c) Individuals covered under this subpart are deemed ineligible for enrollment in any FEHB plan or option other than the Standard Option of the Service Benefit Plan.

(d) Eligible surviving family members of an individual covered under this subpart whose hostage status ended because of death or who dies during the 60 months or 12 months following the end of hostage status are eligible to continue enrollment under this part. The enrollment terminates no later than 60 months or 12 months after hostage status ended.

(e) An individual covered by this subpart is not considered an employee for the purpose of this part.

(f) Eligibility for coverage under this subpart shall be subject to the availability of funds under section 599C(e) of Public Law 101-513.
