
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Department of Defense Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Demonstration Project
###### ยง 890.1303 Eligibility.
####### et seq.

(1) A member or former member of the uniformed services described in section 1074(b) of title 10, United States Code, who is entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c);

(2) An individual who is an unremarried former spouse of a member or former member described in section 1072(2)(F) or section 1072(2)(G) of title 10, United States Code;

(3) An individual who is-

(i) A dependent of a deceased member or former member described in section 1076(b) or 1076(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, or of a member who died while on active duty for a period of more than 30 days; and

(ii) A "member of family" as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code; or

(4) An individual who is-

(i) A dependent of a living member or former member described in section 1076(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, who is entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act, regardless of the member's or former member's eligibility for such hospital insurance benefits; and

(ii) A "member of family" as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code.

(b) An eligible beneficiary may enroll in an FEHB plan under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, for self-only coverage or for self and family coverage. A self and family enrollment will include coverage of a dependent of the military member or former member who meets the definition of a "member of family" in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code. A self and family enrollment will not cover a person related to the eligible beneficiary that does not qualify as a "member of family" (as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code) of the military member or former member.

(c) A person eligible for coverage under this subpart shall not be required to satisfy any eligibility criteria specified in chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, or in other subparts of this part (except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4), and (b) of this section) as a condition for enrollment in health benefit plans offered through the FEHB Program under the demonstration project.

(d) When determining whether an individual is a "member of family" under section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of paragraph (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, a DoD member or former member described in section 1076(b) or 1076(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, shall be deemed to be an employee under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code. The sole purpose for deeming these members or former members of the uniformed services employees under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, is to determine which of their dependents can enroll as eligible beneficiaries in the demonstration project.

(e) A person who is eligible to enroll in the FEHB Program as an employee as defined in section 8901(1) of title 5, United States Code, is not eligible to enroll in an FEHB plan under the demonstration project.
