
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Department of Defense Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Demonstration Project
###### ยง 890.1304 Enrollment.

(a) Open Season for eligible beneficiaries will be held concurrent with the Open Season for regular FEHB enrollees. Open Seasons will be held in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. Eligible beneficiaries will be able to enroll for coverage, change enrollment tiers (e.g., self-only or self and family), or change health benefit plans or plan options during these periods.

(b) Enrolled eligible beneficiaries are required to pay associate membership dues if they enroll in open employee organization sponsored plans that are participating in the demonstration project.

(c) DoD will deny enrollment of eligible beneficiaries when the total number of eligible beneficiaries and family members enrolled in the demonstration project reaches 66,000.

(d) Eligible beneficiaries can enroll only in health plans offered by health benefit carriers who are participating in the demonstration project.

(e) Eligible beneficiaries and family members enrolled in the demonstration project are not eligible to obtain services from military medical treatment facilities or to enroll in a health care plan under the TRICARE Program.

(f) An eligible beneficiary enrolled in an FEHB plan under the demonstration project may change health benefits plans and coverage in the same manner as any other FEHB Program enrollee, except as provided for in this subpart.
