
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart N - Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers
###### ยง 890.1402 Definitions and deemed references.
####### Tribal employee,Present Law and Background Relating to Worker Classification for Federal Tax Purposes,

is a full-time or part-time common law employee of a tribal employer. An individual is a common law employee if, based on all the facts and circumstances, the tribal employer has the right to control and direct the individual who performs the services, not only as to the result to be accomplished by the work but also as to the details and means by which that result is accomplished. This determination is based on all facts and circumstances and shall be guided by the factors described by the Internal Revenue Service in Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296 and referenced in Joint Committee on Taxation report JCX-26-07dated May 7, 2007, and the determination shall be consistent with the tribal employer's determination of common law employee status for Federal employment tax purposes, if any. For purposes of this subpart, tribal employees do not include retirees or annuitants of a tribal employer, volunteers of a tribal employer, or others who are not common law employees of a tribal employer. Categories of excluded tribal employees are described at ยง 890.1405(b). FEHB benefits available to tribal employees are set forth in this subpart and to the extent there exists any ambiguity or inconsistency between this subpart and other subparts of part 890, the terms of this subpart will govern FEHB benefits available to tribal employees.
