
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart N - Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers
###### § 890.1405 Tribal employees eligible for enrollment.

(a) A tribal employee who is a full-time or part-time common law employee of a tribal employer is eligible to enroll in FEHB if that tribal employer has elected to purchase FEHB coverage for the tribal employees of that tribal employer's billing unit, except that a tribal employee described in paragraph (b) of this section is not eligible to enroll in FEHB.

(b) Status as a tribal employee under § 890.1402(a) for purposes of eligibility to enroll in FEHB is initially made based on a reasonable determination by the tribal employer. OPM maintains final authority to correct errors regarding FEHB enrollment as set forth at § 890.1406.

(c) Retirees, annuitants, volunteers, compensationers under Federal worker's disability programs past 365 days, and others who are not common law employees of the tribal employer are not eligible to enroll under this subpart.

(d) The following tribal employees are not eligible to enroll in FEHB-

(1) A tribal employee whose employment is limited to one year or less and who has not completed one year of continuous employment, including any break in service of 5 days or less;

(2) A tribal employee who is expected to work less than 6 months in one year;

(3) An intermittent tribal employee-a non-full-time tribal employee without a prearranged regular tour of duty;

(4) A beneficiary or patient employee in a Government or tribal hospital or home; and

(5) A tribal employee paid on a piecework basis, except one whose work schedule provides for full-time service or part-time service with a regular tour of duty.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section a tribal employee working on a temporary appointment, a tribal employee working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, or a tribal employee working on an intermittent schedule, for whom the tribal employer expects the total hours in pay status (including overtime hours) plus qualifying leave without pay hours to be at least 130 hours per calendar month, is eligible to enroll in FEHB according to terms described in § 890.102(j) unless the tribal employer provides written notification to the Director as described in § 890.102(k).

(f) The tribal employer initially determines eligibility of a tribal employee to enroll in FEHB, eligibility of family members, and eligibility of tribal employee to change enrollment. The tribal employer's initial decision may be appealed pursuant to § 890.1415.

(g) A tribal employee who is eligible and enrolls in FEHB under this subpart will have the option of enrolling in any FEHB open fee-for-service plan or health maintenance organization (HMO), consumer driven health plan (CDHP), or high deductible health plan (HDHP) available to Federal employees in the same geographic location as the tribal employee. The tribal employee will have the same choice of self only, self plus one, or self and family enrollment as is available to Federal employees.

(h) Family members of tribal employees will be covered by FEHB according to terms described at § 890.302. Children of tribal employees, whether married or not married, and whether or not dependent, are covered under a self and family enrollment or a self plus one enrollment (if the child is the designated covered family member) up to the age of 26. Former spouses of tribal employees are not former spouses as described at 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) and are not eligible to elect coverage under subpart H.

(i) Eligibility for FEHB under this subpart does not identify an individual as a Federal employee for any purpose, nor does it convey any additional rights or privileges of Federal employment.
