
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart N - Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers
###### § 890.1407 Enrollment process; effective dates.
####### FEHB election for tribal employers.

(a)Tribal employers may purchase FEHB coverage for their tribal employees after an agreement is accepted by OPM. Tribal employers will not be permitted to access FEHB if the tribal employer contributes toward, or offers, an alternative employer-sponsored health insurance plan for tribal employees within the billing unit(s) for which the employer seeks to purchase FEHB coverage, with the exception of a collectively bargained alternative plan. A stand-alone dental, vision, or disability plan is not considered alternative health insurance.

(b) Opportunities for tribal employees to enroll-

(1) Upon electing to purchase FEHB, a tribal employer will establish an initial enrollment opportunity for tribal employees. A tribal employee's enrollment upon an initial enrollment opportunity becomes effective as prescribed by OPM.

(2) After the initial enrollment opportunity, described in § 890.1407(b)(1), tribal employees are subject to the same initial enrollment period, belated enrollment rules, enrollment by proxy, and open season as Federal employees, as described at § 890.301(a), (b), (c), and (f).

(3) A tribal employee who enrolls after the initial enrollment opportunity and who does not elect premium conversion through his or her tribal employer's premium conversion plan, if one is available, will be subject to the enrollment and qualifying life event rules described at § 890.301 and effective dates described at § 890.301(b) and (f).

(4) A tribal employee who enrolls after the initial enrollment opportunity and who elects premium conversion through his or her tribal employer's premium conversion plan, if one is available, will be subject to the enrollment rules, qualifying life event rules and effective dates described at §§ 892.207, 892.208 and 892.210 of this chapter (together with § 890.301 as referenced therein).
