
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 890 - FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
##### Subpart N - Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers
###### § 890.1410 Termination of enrollment and 31-day temporary extension of coverage; and conversion to individual policy.

(a) Tribal Employee Separation-

(1) Enrollment of a tribal employee under this subpart terminates due to separation from employment with the tribal employer for reasons of resignation, dismissal, or retirement. Termination of enrollment is effective at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the tribal employee separates from employment.

(2) A former tribal employee who is separated under this subpart due to resignation, dismissal, or retirement and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(b) Death of tribal employee-

(1) Enrollment of a tribal employee terminates at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the tribal employee dies.

(2) If, at the time of death, the deceased tribal employee was enrolled in self and family FEHB coverage:

(i) The surviving spouse is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401;

(ii) The covered children of the deceased tribal employee are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(3) If, at the time of death, the deceased tribal employee was enrolled in self plus one FEHB coverage, only the designated covered family member is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(c) Termination of family member coverage-

(1) Coverage of a family member of a tribal employee who was covered under this subpart terminates, subject to the 31-day temporary extension of coverage, for conversion, at midnight of the earlier of the following dates:

(i) The day on which he or she ceases to be a family member; or

(ii) The day the tribal employee's enrollment terminates, unless the family member is entitled to continued coverage under the enrollment of another.

(2) Family members who lose coverage under this subsection are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(d) Tribal employer loses entitlement to purchase FEHB-

(1) Coverage of a tribal employee and family members under this subpart, except TCC that is already elected and in effect, terminates at midnight of the last day of the calendar year in which a tribal employer is no longer entitled to purchase FEHB. FEHB can terminate earlier at the request of the tribal employer.

(2) Following the termination described in § 890.1410(d)(1), enrolled tribal employees and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(e) Tribal employer revokes election to purchase FEHB-

(1) If a tribal employer voluntarily revokes its election to purchase FEHB, tribal employees will be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401. In such a case, the FEHB enrollment terminates effective the first day for which premium payment is not received and the 31-day temporary extension of coverage, for conversion begins immediately thereafter.

(2) [Reserved]

(f) Failure to currently deposit premium payment-

(1) If premium payment is not currently deposited in the Employees Health Benefits Fund, the tribal employer's entitlement to purchase FEHB can be terminated, and all enrollments affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated, for non-payment.

(2) Enrollments of all of the tribal employer's tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated effective midnight of the last day of the month for which payment was received.

(3) In the case of termination of enrollment due to non-payment, affected tribal employees will be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401. The 31-day extension of coverage begins immediately upon termination of enrollment.

(4) In the event that a tribal employer elects to purchase FEHB for its tribal employees but does not currently deposit premium payment in the first month that it is due, the enrollment of tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated effective midnight of the last day of the month for which premium payment was not currently deposited. Tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will not be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and may not convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.

(5) Any outstanding premium due for coverage in arrears will be treated as a debt owed solely by the tribal employer.
