
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 892 - FEDERAL FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN: PRE-TAX PAYMENT OF HEALTH BENEFITS PREMIUMS
##### Subpart D - Reemployed Annuitants and Survivor Annuitants
###### ยง 892.401 Am I eligible for premium conversion if I retire and then come back to work for the Federal Government?

(a) If you are a retired individual enrolled in FEHB who is receiving an annuity and you are reemployed in a position that conveys FEHB eligibility and is covered by the premium conversion plan, you are automatically covered by premium conversion, unless you waive participation as described in ยง 892.205.

(b)(1) If you do not waive premium conversion, your FEHB coverage will be transferred to your employing agency, and your employing agency will assume responsibility for contributing the Government share of your FEHB coverage. Your coverage, including what FEHB plans you are eligible to enroll in, will be based on your status as an active employee and your employing agency will deduct your premiums from your salary.

(2) If you elect to waive participation in premium conversion, you will keep your FEHB coverage as an annuitant, but your contributions towards your FEHB premiums will be made on an after-tax basis. Your employing agency must receive your waiver no later than 60 days after the date you return to Federal employment. A waiver will be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after your employer receives it.

(c) If you did not carry FEHB into retirement and you are reemployed as an employee in a position covered by the premium conversion plan, you may enroll in the FEHB Program as a new employee as described in ยง 890.301 of this chapter. Upon enrolling in FEHB, you are automatically covered by the premium conversion plan, unless you waive participation as described in ยง 892.205.

(d) Your status as an annuitant under the retirement regulations and your right to continue FEHB as an annuitant following your period of reemployment is unaffected.
