
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 900 - INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs in the Office of Personnel Management - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
###### ยง 900.405 Assurances required.
####### General.

(a)(1) An application for Federal financial assistance to carry out a program to which this subpart applies, except a program to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, and every application for Federal financial assistance to provide a facility shall, as a condition to its approval and the extension of Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, contain or be accompanied by, assurances that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with the requirements imposed by or pursuant to this subpart. Every program of Federal financial assistance shall require the submission of these assurances. In the case where the Federal financial assistance is to provide or is in the form of personal property, or real property or interest therein or structures thereon, the assurances shall obligate the recipient, or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. In other cases, the assurances obligate the recipient for the period during which the Federal financial assistance is extended to the program. In the case where the assistance is sought for the construction of a facility or part of a facility, the assurances shall extend to the entire facility and to the facilities operated in connection therewith. OPM shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances for each program, and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants in the program. The assurances shall include provisions which give the United States the right to seek judicial enforcement.

(2) When Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of a transfer of real property, structures, or improvements thereon, or interest therein, from the Federal Government, the instrument effecting or recording the transfer shall contain a covenant running with the land assuring nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. When no transfer of property or interest therein from the Federal Government is involved, but property is acquired or improved under a program of Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include a covenant in any subsequent transfer of the property. When the property is obtained from the Federal Government, the covenant may also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by OPM to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant where, in the discretion of OPM, such a condition and right of reverter is appropriate to the program under which the real property is obtained and to the nature of the grant and the grantee. In the event a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, OPM may agree, on request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish the financing, and on conditions as he deems appropriate, to subordinate a right of reversion to the lien of a mortgage or other encumbrance.
