
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 900 - INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs in the Office of Personnel Management - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
###### ยง 900.409 Hearings.
####### Opportunity for hearing.

(a)When an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 900.408(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (1) fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of OPM that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (2) advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated time and place. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set is deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 602 of title VI and ยง 900.408(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of the information as is available.
