
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 900 - INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs in the Office of Personnel Management - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
###### ยง 900.410 Decisions and notices.
####### Post termination proceedings.

(g)(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of the order for eligibility, or if it brings itself into compliance with this subpart and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this subpart.

(2) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the Director, Office of Personnel Management to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. A request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the Director, Office of Personnel Management determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he/she shall restore the eligibility.

(3) If OPM denies a request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for hearing in writing, specifying why it believes OPM is in error. The applicant or recipient shall be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with the rules or procedures issued by OPM. The applicant or recipient shall be restored to eligibility if it proves at the hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section remain in effect.
