
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 900 - INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration
###### ยง 900.604 Compliance.
####### Resolution of Compliance Issues.

(b)(1) Chief executives of State and local jurisdictions operating covered programs are responsible for supervising compliance by personnel systems in their jurisdictions with the Standards. They shall resolve all questions regarding compliance by personnel systems in their jurisdictions with the Standards. Findings and supporting documentation with regard to specific compliance issues shall be maintained by the chief executive, or a personal designee, and shall be forwarded, on request, to the Office of Personnel Management.

(2) The merit principles apply to systems of personnel administration. The Intergovernmental Personnel Act does not authorize OPM to exercise any authority, direction or control over the selection, assignment, advancement, retention, compensation, or other personnel action with respect to any individual State or local employee.

(3) When a chief executive requests the assistance of the Office of Personnel Management, the Office will provide consultation and technical advice to aid the State or local government in complying with the Standards.

(4) The Office of Personnel Management will advise Federal agencies on application of the Standards in resolving compliance issues and will recommend actions to carry out the purposes of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act. Questions regarding interpretation of the Standards will be referred to the Office of Personnel Management.
