
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 900 - INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration
###### Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 900 - Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration

Part I: The following programs have a statutory requirement for the establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on a merit basis.

Food Stamp, Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(6)(B).

Employment Security (Unemployment Insurance and Employment Services), Social Security Act (Title III), as amended by the Social Security Act Amendments of 1939, Section 301, on August 10, 1939, and the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by Pub. L. 81-775, section 2, on September 8, 1950; 42 U.S.C. 503(a)(1) and 29 U.S.C. 49d(b).

Grants to States for Old-Age Assistance for the Aged (Title I of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 302(a)(5)(A).

Aid to Families with Dependent Children, (Title IV-A of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 602(a)(5).

Grants to States for Aid to the Blind, (Title X of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1202(a)(5)(A).

Grants to States for Aid to the Permanently and Totally Disabled, (Title XIV of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1352(a)(5)(A).

Grants to States for Aid to the Aged, Blind or Disabled. (Title XVI of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1382(a)(5)(A).

Medical Assistance (Medicaid), Social Security Act (Title XIX), as amended, section 1902 (a)(4)(A); 42 U.S.C. 1396(a)(4)(A).

State and Community Programs on Aging (Older Americans), Older Americans Act of 1965 (Title III), as amended by the Comprehensive Older Americans Act Amendments of 1976, section 307 on October 18, 1978; 42 U.S.C. 3027(a)(4).

Federal Payments for Foster Care and Adoption Assistance, (Title IV-E of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 671(a)(5).

Part II: The following programs have a regulatory requirement for the establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on a merit basis.

Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; Occupational Safety and Health State Plans for the Development and Enforcement of State Standards; Department of Labor, 29 CFR 1902.3(h).

Occupational Safety and Health Statistics, Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; BLS Grant Application Kit, May 1, 1973, Supplemental Assurance No. 15A.

Robert T. Stafford Disaster Assistance and Emergency Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5196b), as amended; 44 CFR 302.4.
