
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 302 - EMPLOYMENT IN THE EXCEPTED SERVICE
##### Subpart C - Accepting, Rating, and Arranging Applications
###### ยง 302.303 Maintenance of employment lists.
####### Priority reemployment list.

(b)Candidates are entered on the priority reemployment list in the geographic areas specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and remain on the list for 2 years unless the agency elects to provide a longer period of eligibility. The priority reemployment list includes:

(1) The name of each former employee of the agency who is a preference eligible, has been furloughed or separated from a continuing appointment without delinquency or misconduct, and applies for reemployment. Candidates in this category are considered for positions in the commuting area where they were separated unless the agency elects to provide broader consideration.

(2) The name of each former employee of the agency who is a preference eligible and who, as the result of an appeal under part 752 of this chapter, is found by the Merit Systems Protection Board to have been unjustifiably dismissed from the agency, but who is not entitled to immediate restoration under the Board's decision. Candidates in this category are considered in the commuting area from which separated unless the Board's decision specifies a broader or different area or the agency elects to afford broader geographic consideration.

(3) The name of each former employee of the agency who has been furloughed or separated due to compensable injury sustained under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, subchapter I, who is not entitled to immediate restoration, and who is eligible for priority consideration under this part. Candidates in this category are considered in the commuting area where they last served and, if the agency determines that an appropriate vacancy is unlikely to occur in that area during the candidates' period of reemployment priority, in other locations for which they are available.

(4) At the agency's discretion, the name of each former employee of the agency who is not a preference eligible, has been furloughed or involuntarily separated from a continuing appointment without delinquency or misconduct, and applies for reemployment. Candidates in this category are considered in the geographic area specified by the agency.
