
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 930 - PROGRAMS FOR SPECIFIC POSITIONS AND EXAMINATIONS (MISCELLANEOUS)
##### Subpart C - Information Security Responsibilities for Employees who Manage or Use Federal Information Systems
###### ยง 930.301 Information systems security awareness training program.
####### http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/,

(a) Identify employees with significant information security responsibilities and provide role-specific training in accordance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidance available on the NIST Web site,as follows:

(1) All users of Federal information systems must be exposed to security awareness materials at least annually. Users of Federal information systems include employees, contractors, students, guest researchers, visitors, and others who may need access to Federal information systems and applications.

(2) Executives must receive training in information security basics and policy level training in security planning and management.

(3) Program and functional managers must receive training in information security basics; management and implementation level training in security planning and system/application security management; and management and implementation level training in system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.

(4) Chief Information Officers (CIOs), IT security program managers, auditors, and other security-oriented personnel (e.g., system and network administrators, and system/application security officers) must receive training in information security basics and broad training in security planning, system and application security management, system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.

(5) IT function management and operations personnel must receive training in information security basics; management and implementation level training in security planning and system/application security management; and management and implementation level training in system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.

(b) Provide the Federal information systems security awareness material/exposure outlined in NIST guidance on IT security awareness and training to all new employees before allowing them access to the systems.

(c) Provide information systems security refresher training for agency employees as frequently as determined necessary by the agency, based on the sensitivity of the information that the employees use or process.

(d) Provide training whenever there is a significant change in the agency information system environment or procedures or when an employee enters a new position that requires additional role-specific training.
