
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 950 - SOLICITATION OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN AND UNIFORMED SERVICE PERSONNEL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 950.201 Charity eligibility.

(a) The Director shall annually:

(1) Determine the timetable and other procedures regarding application for inclusion in the Charity List; and

(2) Determine which organizations among those that apply qualify to be included in the National/International, International and Local parts of the Charity List. In order to determine whether an organization may participate in the campaign, the Director may request evidence of corrective action regarding any prior violation of regulation or directive, sanction, or penalty, as appropriate. The Director retains the ultimate authority to decide whether the organization has demonstrated, to the Director's satisfaction, that the organization has taken appropriate corrective action. Failure to demonstrate satisfactory corrective action or to respond to the Director's request for information within 10 business days of the date of the request may result in a determination that the organization will not be included in the Charity List.

(b) The Charity List will include each organization's CFC code and other information as determined by OPM.

(c) A charity must submit the full application the initial year it applies to participate in the CFC. In lieu of a full application, a charity may submit a verification application for the two years immediately following its submission of a full application.

(1) A verification application consists of certification of all applicable statements required by §§ 950.202 and 950.203, and submission of an IRS Form 990 or pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3).

(2) An organization that did not apply or was not approved for participation in the preceding campaign must submit a full application.
