
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 950 - SOLICITATION OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN AND UNIFORMED SERVICE PERSONNEL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 950.203 Public accountability standards.

(a) To ensure organizations wishing to solicit donations from Federal employees in the workplace are portraying accurately their programs and benefits, each organization seeking eligibility must meet annually applicable standards and certification requirements. Each organization, other than FSYA or FSYP, wishing to participate must:

(1) Certify that the organization is a human health and welfare organization providing services, benefits, or assistance to, or conducting activities affecting, human health and welfare. The organization's application must provide documentation describing the health and human welfare benefits provided by the organization within the previous calendar year;

(2) Subject to the exceptions listed in this section, certify that it accounts for its funds on an accrual basis in accordance with United States or International generally accepted accounting principles and that an audit of its fiscal operations is completed annually by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. A copy of the organization's most recent annual audited financial statements must be included with the application. The statements must include all statements required for voluntary health and welfare organizations by the United States Financial Accounting Standards Board or the International Accounting Standards Board. The audited financial statements must cover the fiscal period ending not more than 18 months prior to the January of the year of the campaign for which the organization is applying. For example, the audited financial statements included in the 2014 application must cover the fiscal period ending on or after June 30, 2012.

(i) An organization with annual revenue of less than $100,000 reported on its IRS Form 990 or pro forma IRS Form 990 submitted to the CFC is not required to undergo an audit, submit audited financial statements, or to account for its funds on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Rather, the organization must certify that it has controls in place to ensure that funds are properly accounted for and that it can provide accurate and timely financial information to interested parties.

(ii) An organization with annual revenue of at least $100,000 but less than $250,000 is not required to undergo an audit. The organization must certify that its financial statements are reviewed by an independent certified public accountant on an annual basis or are audited by an independent public accountant on an annual basis. A copy of the reviewed or audited financial statements must be included with the application.

(3) Certify that it prepares and submits to the IRS a complete copy of the organization's IRS Form 990 or that it is not required to prepare and submit an IRS Form 990 to the IRS. Provide a completed copy of the organization's IRS Form 990 submitted to the IRS covering a fiscal period ending not more than 18 months prior to the January of the year of the campaign for which the organization is applying, including signature, and all supplemental schedules, with the application, or if not required to file an IRS Form 990, provide a pro forma IRS Form 990. Pro forma IRS Form 990 instructions will be posted on the OPM Web site and included in the application instructions. IRS Forms 990EZ, 990PF, and comparable forms are not acceptable substitutes. The IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements, if required, must cover the same fiscal period.

(4) Provide a computation of the organization's percentage of total support and revenue spent on administrative and fundraising. This percentage shall be computed from information on the IRS Form 990 submitted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(5) Certify that the organization is directed by an active and responsible governing body whose members have no material conflict of interest and, a majority of which serve without compensation.

(6) Certify that the organization's fundraising practices prohibit the sale or lease of its CFC contributor lists.

(7) Certify that its publicity and promotional activities are based upon its actual program and operations, are truthful and non-deceptive, and make no exaggerated or misleading claims.

(8) Certify that contributions are effectively used for the announced purposes of the charitable organization.

(9) Provide a statement that the certifying official is authorized by the organization to certify and affirm all statements required for inclusion on the Charity List.

(b) The Director shall review these applications for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with these regulations. Failure to supply any of this information may be judged a failure to comply with the requirements of public accountability, and the charitable organization may be ruled ineligible for inclusion on the Charity List.

(c) The Director may request such additional information as the Director deems necessary to complete these reviews. An organization that fails to comply with such requests within 10 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request may be judged ineligible.

(d) The required certifications and documentation must have been completed and submitted prior to the application filing deadline.

(e) The Director may waive any of these standards and certifications upon a showing of extenuating circumstances.
