
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 950 - SOLICITATION OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN AND UNIFORMED SERVICE PERSONNEL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS
##### Subpart E - Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 950.503 Sanctions and penalties.

(a)(1) The Director may impose sanctions or penalties on a federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator for violating these regulations, other applicable provisions of law, or any directive or instruction from the Director. The Director will determine the appropriate sanction and/or penalty, up to and including expulsion from the CFC. In determining the appropriate sanction and/or penalty, the Director will consider previous violations, harm to Federal employee confidence in the CFC, and any other relevant factors. A federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator will be notified in writing of the Director's intent to sanction and/or penalize and will have 10 business days from the date of receipt of the notice to submit a written response. The Director's final decision will be communicated in writing to the federation, charitable organization or marketing organization.

(2) The Director may withdraw federation status with respect to a National/International, International or Local federation that makes a false certification or fails to comply with any directive of the Director, or to respond in a timely fashion to a request by the Director for information or cooperation, including with respect to an investigation or in the settlement of disbursements. As stated in ยง 950.301(d), failure to meet minimum federation eligibility requirements shall not be deemed to be a withdrawal of federation status subject to a hearing on the record. Eligibility decisions shall follow the procedures in ยง 950.301(f). A federation will be notified in writing of the Director's intent to withdraw federation status for a period of up to one campaign and will have 10 business days from the date of receipt of the notice to submit a written response. On receipt of the response, or in the absence of a timely response, the Director or representative shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing. The federation shall be notified at least 10 business days in advance of the hearing. A hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer designated by the Director unless it is waived in writing by the federation. After the hearing is held, or after the Director's receipt of the federation's written waiver of the hearing, the Director shall make a final decision on the record, taking into consideration the recommendation submitted by the hearing officer. The Director's final decision will be communicated in writing to the federation.

(3) A federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator sanctioned or penalized under any provision of these regulations must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that it has taken corrective action to resolve the reason for sanction and/or penalty and has implemented reasonable and appropriate controls to ensure that the situation will not occur again prior to being allowed to participate in subsequent CFCs.

(b) At the Director's discretion, CCAs, payroll offices and Federations may be directed to suspend distribution of current and future CFC donations from Federal employees to recipient organizations. CCAs, payroll offices and Federations shall immediately place suspended contributions in an interest bearing account until directed to do otherwise.
