
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 950 - SOLICITATION OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN AND UNIFORMED SERVICE PERSONNEL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS
##### Subpart H - Accounting and Distribution
###### ยง 950.801 Accounting and distribution.
####### Accounting.

(b)(1) OPM may require Federal payroll offices to oversee the establishment of individual allotment accounts, the deductions each pay period, and the reconciliation of employee accounts in accordance with agency and Federal Accounting Standards and Office of Management and Budget requirements. OPM may further require that Federal payroll offices ensure the accuracy of remittances, as supported by current allotment authorizations, and internal accounting and auditing requirements.

(2) The CCA shall notify the federations, national and international organizations, and local organizations as soon as practicable after the completion of the campaign, but in no case later than a date to be determined by OPM, of the amounts, if any, designated to them and their member agencies. The date will be part of the annual timetable issued by the Director under ยง 950.601(b). The CCA is also responsible for distributing credit card, debit card, e-check, check and money order receipts and payroll deductions transmitted by the payroll offices. It is responsible for the accuracy of disbursements it transmits to recipients. The CCA will distribute all CFC receipts beginning April 1, and monthly thereafter. It shall remit the contributions to each organization or to the federation, if any, of which the organization is a member. At the close of each disbursement period, the CFC account shall have a balance of zero, based on the last reconciled bank statement.

(3) Federated organizations, or their designated agents, are responsible for:

(i) The accuracy of distribution among the charitable organizations of remittances from the CCA; and

(ii) Arrangements for an independent audit conducted by a certified public accountant agreed upon by the participating charitable organizations.
