
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 304 - EXPERT AND CONSULTANT APPOINTMENTS
##### ยง 304.106 Pay and leave administration.

(a) The employing agency has the authority to adjust the pay of experts and consultants after initial appointment and to establish appropriate policies governing the amount and timing of any such adjustments, subject to the limitations of ยง 304.105. In addition to the factors listed in ยง 304.104(b), the agency may consider factors such as job performance, contributions to agency mission, and the general pay increases granted to other Federal employees. Experts and consultants are not entitled to receive automatic adjustments in their rates of basic pay at the time of general pay increases under 5 U.S.C. 5303 unless specifically provided for in the official appointing document. In the absence of such automatic entitlement, any pay adjustments are at the agency's discretion.

(b) Experts and consultants paid on a daily rate basis are not entitled to overtime pay under section 5542 of title 5, United States Code. Otherwise, experts and consultants qualify for premium pay under subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, if they meet the applicable eligibility requirements (including the requirement that an employee have a regularly scheduled tour of duty, where applicable).

(c) Experts and consultants may be entitled to overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act if they are nonexempt under OPM regulations implementing that Act for Federal employees. (See 5 CFR part 551).

(d) An expert or consultant may be paid for service on an intermittent basis in more than one expert or consultant position, provided the pay is not received for the same period of time (5 U.S.C. 5533(d)(1)).

(e) Experts and consultants are subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8344 and 8468 on reduction of basic pay by the amount of annuity received.

(f) Experts and consultants are subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5532 on reduction of retired military pay.
