
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 175 - OPM MANDATORY REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS
##### ยง 175.102 Requests for the declassification of documents.

Any Federal agency, Government employee or member of the public has the right to request a mandatory review of any classified document, held by the Office of Personnel Management, which was classified for national security purposes by the Civil Service Commission. The Office of Personnel Management does not have the authority to classify documents.

(a) Requests for mandatory declassification review should be addressed to the Director, Office of Management, or the designee of the Director, who will act on requests within 60 days. Requests need not be made in any special form but shall, as specified in section 3-501 of the Executive order, reasonably describe the information.

(b) Based upon the review, the document, or any reasonably segregable portion thereof that no longer requires protection under the Executive order, shall be declassified and released unless withholding is otherwise warranted under applicable law.

(c) No OPM official will refuse to confirm the existence or non-existence of any document requested under the Freedom of Information Act or the mandatory review provisions of the Executive order, unless the fact of its existence or non-existence would itself be classifiable under the Executive order. OPM Administrative Manual chapter 22, covering OPM policies and procedures relating to classified information or material is available for inspection by the public in the OPM Library, room 5H27, 1900 E. St., NW., Washington, DC, or in one of the 10 OPM regional offices in the following cities: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, San Francisco and Seattle.
