
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter II - Merit Systems Protection Board
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 1204 - AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Obtaining Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
###### ยง 1204.12 Fees.
####### Categories of requesters.

(c)There are four categories of FOIA requesters: Commercial use requesters; educational and noncommercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. To be included in the category of educational and noncommercial scientific institutions, requesters must show that the request is authorized by a qualifying institution and that they are seeking the records not for a commercial use, but to further scholarly or scientific research. To be included in the news media category, a requester must meet the definition in paragraph (b)(8) of this section and the request must not be made for a commercial use. To avoid commercial use charges, requesters must show that they should be included in a category or categories other than that of commercial use requesters. The Board will decide the categories to place requesters for fee purposes. It will make these determinations based on information given by the requesters and information otherwise known to the Board.

(d) The Board will not charge a requester if the fee for any request is less that $100 (the cost to the Board of processing and collecting the fee).

(1) When the Board receives a request:

(i) From a commercial use requester, it will charge fees that recover the full direct costs for searching for the information requested, reviewing it for release at the initial request stage, reviewing it after an appeal to determine whether other exemptions not considered before the appeal apply to it, and copying it.

(ii) From an educational and noncommercial scientific institution or, to the extent copying exceeds 100 pages, from a representative of the news media, it will charge fees only for the cost of copying the requested information.

(iii) From all other requesters, to the extent copying exceeds 100 pages and search time exceeds 2 hours, it will charge fees for the full direct cost of searching for and copying requested records.

(2) When the Board reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters is attempting to divide a request into more than one request to avoid payment of fees, the Board will combine the requests and charge fees accordingly. The Board will not combine multiple requests on unrelated subjects from one requester.

(3) When the Board decides that charges for a request are likely to exceed $250, the Board will require the requester to pay the entire fee in advance before continuing to process the request.

(4) When a requester has an outstanding fee charge or has not paid a fee on time, the Board will require the requester to pay the full amount of the estimated fee in advance before the Board begins to process a new or pending request from that requester, and before it applies administrative time limits for making a decision on the new or pending request.
