
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter II - Merit Systems Protection Board
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 1204 - AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Obtaining Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
###### ยง 1204.12 Fees.
####### Fee schedule.

(e)(1) Fees for document searches for records will be charged at a rate of $5 per quarter hour spent by each Board employee performing the search.

(2) Fees for computer searches for records will be $5 per quarter hour spent by each employee operating the computer equipment and/or developing a new inquiry or report.

(3) Fees for review at the initial administrative level to determine whether records or portions of records are exempt from disclosure, and for review after an appeal to determine whether the records are exempt on other legal grounds, will be charged, for commercial use requests, at a rate of $5 per quarter hour spent by each reviewing employee.

(4) Fees for photocopying records is 20 cents a page, the fee for copying audio tapes is the direct cost up to $15 per cassette tape; the fee for copying video tapes is the direct cost up to $20 per tape; and the fee for computer printouts is 10 cents a page. The fee for duplication of electronically maintained information in the requester's preferred format will be $21 for copying computer tapes and $4 for copying records on computer diskettes, if it is feasible for the Board to reproduce records in the format requested. Fees for certified copies of the Board's records will include a $4 per page charge for each page displaying the Board's seal and certification. When the Board estimates that copying costs will exceed $100, it will notify the requester of the estimated amount unless the requester has indicated in advance a willingness to pay an equal or higher amount.
