
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter II - Merit Systems Protection Board
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 1207 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
##### ยง 1207.170 Compliance procedures.
###### Allegations of discrimination in the adjudication of a Board case.

(b)(1) When a party to a case pending before any of the Board's judges believes he or she has been subjected to discrimination on the basis of disability in the adjudication of the case, the party may raise the allegation in a pleading filed with the judge and served on all other parties in accordance with 5 CFR 1201.26(b)(2).

(2) An allegation of discrimination in the adjudication of a Board case must be raised within 10 days of the alleged act of discrimination or within 10 days from the date the complainant should reasonably have known of the alleged discrimination. If the complainant does not submit a complaint within that time period, it will be dismissed as untimely filed unless a good reason for the delay is shown. The pleading must be clearly marked "5 CFR part 1207 allegation of discrimination in the adjudication of a Board case."

(3) The judge to whom the case is assigned shall decide the merits of any timely allegation that is raised at this stage of adjudication, and shall make findings and conclusions regarding the allegation either in an interim order or in the initial decision, recommended decision, or recommendation. Any request for reconsideration of the administrative judge's decision on the disability discrimination claim must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 5 CFR 1201.114 and 1201.115.

(4) If the judge to whom the case was assigned has issued the initial decision, recommended decision, or recommendation by the time the party learns of the alleged discrimination, the party may raise the allegation in a petition for review, cross petition for review, or response to the petition or cross petition. The petition for review, cross petition for review or response to the petition or cross petition must be clearly marked "5 CFR part 1207 allegation of discrimination in the adjudication of a Board case."

(5) The Board shall decide the merits of any timely allegation that is raised at this stage of adjudication in a final decision.

(c) All complaints of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs and activities conducted by the agency, except for those described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, shall be filed under the procedures described in this paragraph.
