
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter II - Merit Systems Protection Board
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 1207 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
##### ยง 1207.170 Compliance procedures.
###### Where and when to file.,equalopportunity@mspb.gov

(2)Complaints shall be filed with the Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO Director), Merit Systems Protection Board, 1615 M Street, NW., Washington DC 20419, or e-mailed to, within thirty-five (35) calendar days of the alleged act of discrimination. A complaint filed by personal delivery is considered filed on the date it is received by the EEO Director. The date of filing by facsimile or e-mail is the date the facsimile or e-mail is sent. The date of filing by mail is determined by the postmark date; if no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the submission is presumed to have been mailed five days (excluding days on which the Board is closed for business) before its receipt. The date of filing by commercial overnight delivery is the date the document was delivered to the commercial overnight delivery service. The agency shall extend the time period for filing a complaint upon a showing of good cause. For example, the agency shall extend this time limit if a complainant shows that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from submitting the matter within the time limits.
