
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter II - Merit Systems Protection Board
### Subchapter A - Organization and Procedures
#### PART 1207 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
##### ยง 1207.170 Compliance procedures.
###### Acceptance of complaint.

(3)(i) The agency shall accept a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and over which it has jurisdiction. The EEO Director shall notify the complainant of receipt and acceptance of the complaint.

(ii) If the EEO Director receives a complaint that is not complete, he or she shall notify the complainant that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint and return it to the EEO Director within 15 days of his or her receipt of the request for additional information, the EEO Director shall dismiss the complaint with prejudice and shall so inform the complainant.

(4) Within 60 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the EEO Director shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in an initial decision containing-

(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(ii) When applicable, a description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.

(5) Any appeal of the EEO Director's initial decision must be filed with the Chairman of the Board, Merit Systems Protection Board, 1615 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20419 by the complainant within 35 days of the date the EEO Director issues the decision required by ยง 1207.170(c)(4). The agency may extend this time for good cause when a complainant shows that circumstances beyond his or her control prevented the filing of an appeal within the prescribed time limit. An appeal filed by personal delivery is considered filed on the date it is received by the Chairman. The date of filing by facsimile is the date of the facsimile. The date of filing by mail is determined by the postmark date; if no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the submission is presumed to have been mailed five days (excluding days on which the Board is closed for business) before its receipt. The date of filing by commercial overnight delivery is the date the document was delivered to the commercial overnight delivery service. The appeal should be clearly marked "Appeal of Section 504 Decision" and must contain specific objections explaining why the person believes the initial decision was factually or legally wrong. A copy of the initial decision being appealed should be attached to the appeal letter.

(6) A timely appeal shall be decided by the Chairman unless the Chairman determines, in his or her discretion, that the appeal raises policy issues and that the nature of those policy issues warrants a decision by the full Board. The full Board shall then decide such appeals.

(7) The Chairman shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the request. If the Chairman determines that he or she needs additional information from the complainant, he or she shall have sixty (60) days from the date he or she receives the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.

(8) The time limit stated in paragraph (c)(2) may be extended by the EEO Director to a period of up to 180 days, and may be extended further with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General. The time limit stated in paragraph (c)(5) may be extended by the Chairman to a period of up to 180 days, and may be extended further with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.

(9) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.

(d) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.

(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate entity.
