
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter A - Administrative Procedures
#### PART 1302 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1302.2 Requests for access.
###### Procedures,Content of the Request.

(b)-(1)(i) The request for access to a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Assistant to the Director for Administration, at the address cited above, and shall name the system of records or contain a description (as concise as possible) of such system of records. The request should state that the request is pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. In the absence of specifying solely the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if the request may be processed under both the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act and the request specifies both or neither act, the procedures under the Privacy Act of 1974 will be employed. The individual will be advised that the procedures of the Privacy Act will be utilized, of the existence and the general effect of the Freedom of Information Act, and the difference between procedures under the two acts (e.g. fees, time limits, access). The request should contain necessary information to verify the identity of the requester (see ยง 1302.2(b)(2)(vi), of this part) . In addition, the requester should include any other information which may assist in the rapid identification of the record for which access is being requested (e.g., maiden name, dates of employment, etc.) as well as any other identifying information contained in and required by the OMB Notice of Systems of Records.

(ii) If the request for access follows a prior request under ยง 1302.1, of this part, the same identifying information need not be included in the request for access if a reference is made to that prior correspondence, or a copy of the OMB response to that request is attached.

(iii) If the individual specifically desires a copy of the record, the request should so specify.
