
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter A - Administrative Procedures
#### PART 1302 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1302.4 Requests to amend records.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1) (i) The request to amend a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Assistant to the Director for Administration. Included in the request shall be the name of the system and a brief description of the record proposed for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record is the result of the individual's having gained access to the record in accordance with the provisions concerning access to records as set forth above, copies of previous correspondence between the requester and OMB will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.

(ii) When the individual's identity has been previously verified pursuant to ยง 1302.2(b)(2)(vi) herein, further verification of identity is not required as long as the communication does not suggest that a need for verification is present. If the individual's identity has not been previously verified, OMB may require identification validation as described in ยง 1302.2(b)(2)(vi). Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of a request to amend a record should contact the Assistant to the Director for Administration at the address cited above.

(iii) The exact portion of the record the individual seeks to have amended should be clearly indicated. If possible, the proposed alternative language should also be set forth, or at a minimum, the facts which the individual believes are not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete should be set forth with such particularity as to permit OMB not only to understand the individual's basis for the request, but also to make an appropriate amendment to the record.

(iv) The request must also set forth the reasons why the individual believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. In order to avoid the retention by OMB of personal information merely to permit verification of records, the burden of persuading OMB to amend a record will be upon the individual. The individual must furnish sufficient facts to persuade the official in charge of the system of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, timeliness, or incompleteness of the record.

(v) Incomplete or inaccurate requests will not be rejected categorically. The individual will be asked to clarify the request as needed.
