
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter A - Administrative Procedures
#### PART 1302 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### § 1302.5 Request for review.

(a) Individuals wishing to request a review of the decision by OMB with regard to an initial request to access or amend a record in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1302.2 and 1302.4 of this part, should submit the request for review in writing and, to the extent possible, include the information specified in § 1302.5(b), below. Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of their request for review should contact the Assistant to the Director for Administration at the address provided herein.

(b) The request for review should contain a brief description of the record involved or in lieu thereof, copies of the correspondence from OMB in which the request to access or to amend was denied and also the reasons why the requester believes that access should be granted or the disputed information amended. The request for review should make reference to the information furnished by the individual in support of his claim and the reasons as required by §§ 1302.2 and 1302.4 of this part set forth by OMB in its decision denying access or amendment. Appeals filed without a complete statement by the requester setting forth the reasons for the review will, of course, be processed. However, in order to make the appellate process as meaningful as possible, the requester's disagreement should be set forth in an understandable manner. In order to avoid the unnecessary retention of personal information, OMB reserves the right to dispose of the material concerning the request to access or amend a record if no request for review in accordance with this section is received by OMB within 180 days of the mailing by OMB of its decision upon an initial request. A request for review received after the 180 day period may, at the discretion of the Assistant to the Director for Administration, be treated as an initial request to access or amend a record.

(c) The request for review should be addressed to the Assistant to the Director for Administration.

(d) Upon receipt of a request for review, the Assistant to the Director for Administration will convene a review group composed of the Assistant to the Director for Administration, the General Counsel, or their designees, and the official having operational control over the record. This group will review the basis for the requested review and will develop a recommended course of action to the Deputy Director. If at any time additional information is required from the requester, the Assistant to the Director for Administration is authorized to acquire it or authorize its acquisition from the requester.

(e) The Office of Management and Budget has established an internal Committee on Freedom of Information and Privacy (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee is composed of:

(1) Deputy Director;

(2) Assistant to the Director for Administration;

(3) General Counsel;

(4) Assistant Director for Budget Review;

(5) Assistant Director for Legislative Reference;

(6) Assistant to the Director for Public Affairs;

(7) Deputy Associate Director for Information Systems;

(8) Deputy Associate Director for Statistical Policy;

(9) Deputy Associate Director for National Security;

(10) Budget and Management Officer;

(11) Personnel Officer.

(f) The Committee, when directed by the Assistant to the Director for Administration, will review the Office's administration of the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts and make recommendations for the improvement thereto. In addition, the Committee, upon the request of the Deputy Director, may evaluate a request for review or appeal and recommend a decision to the Deputy Director, who has the final authority regarding appeals.

(g) The Deputy Director will inform the requester in writing of the decision on the request for review within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) from the date of receipt by OMB of the individual's request for review unless the Deputy Director extends the 20 day period for good cause. The extension and the reasons therefor will be sent by OMB to the requester within the initial 20 day period. Such extensions should not be routine and should not normally exceed an additional thirty days. If the decision does not grant in full the request for amendment, the notice of the decision will provide a description of the steps the individual may take to obtain judicial review of such a decision, a statement that the individual may file a concise statement with OMB setting forth the individual's reasons for his disagreement with the decision and the procedures for filing such a statement of disagreement. The Assistant to the Director for Administration has the authority to determine the "conciseness" of the statement, taking into account the scope of the disagreement and the complexity of the issues. Upon the filing of a proper concise statement by the individual, any subsequent disclosure of the information in dispute will be clearly noted so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent, a copy of the concise statement furnished and a concise statement by OMB setting forth its reasons for not making the requested changes, if OMB chooses to file such a statement. A notation of a dispute is required to be made only if an individual informs the agency of his disagreement with OMB's determination in accordance with § 1302.5 (a), (b) and (c). A copy of the individual's statement, and if it chooses, OMB's statement will be sent to any prior transferee of the disputed information who is listed on the accounting required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). If the reviewing official determines that the record should be amended in accordance with the individual's request, OMB will promptly correct the record, advise the individual, and inform previous recipients if an accounting of the disclosure was made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(c). The notification of correction pertains to information actually disclosed.
