
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter A - Administrative Procedures
#### PART 1302 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1302.6 Schedule of fees.
###### Duplication of records.

(1)Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.10 per page for all copying of 4 pages or more. There is not charge for duplication 3 or fewer pages.

(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25.00, the requester shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will greatly exceed $25.00, an advance deposit may be required. The notice or request for an advance deposit shall extend an offer to the requester to consult with Office personnel in order to reformulate the request in a manner which will reduce the fees, yet still meet the needs of the requester.

(3) Fees should be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. In the event the requester is in arrears for previous requests copies will not be provided for any subsequent request until the arrears have been paid in full.

(4) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Treasury of the United States and mailed or delivered to the Assistant to the Director for Administration, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503.

(5) A receipt for fees paid will be given upon request.
