
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1312 - CLASSIFICATION, DOWNGRADING, DECLASSIFICATION AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information
###### ยง 1312.6 Duration of classification.

(a)(1) When determining the duration of classification for information originally classified under Executive Order 12958, an original classification authority shall follow the following sequence:

(i) He/She shall attempt to determine a date or event that is less than 10 years from the date of original classification, and which coincides with the lapse of the information's national security sensitivity, and shall assign such date or event as the declassification instruction;

(ii) If unable to determine a date or event of less than 10 years, he/she shall ordinarily assign a declassification date that is 10 years from the date of the original classification decision;

(iii) He/She may extend the duration of classification or reclassify specific information for a period not to exceed 10 additional years if such action is consistent with the exemptions as outlined in Section 1.6(d) of the Executive Order. This provision does not apply to information contained in records that are more than 25 years old and have been determined to have permanent historical value under Title 44 United States Code.

(iv) He/She may exempt from declassification within 10 years specific information, which is consistent with the exemptions as outlined in Section 1.6 (d) of the Executive Order.

(2) Extending Duration of Classification. Extensions of classification are not automatic. If an original classification authority with jurisdiction over the information does not extend the date or event for declassification, the information is automatically declassified upon the occurrence of the date or event. If an original classification authority has assigned a date or event for declassification that is 10 years or less from the date of classification, an original classification authority with jurisdiction over the information may extend the classification duration of such information for additional periods not to exceed 10 years at a time. Records determined to be of historical value may not exceed the duration of 25 years.

(b) When extending the duration of classification, the original classification authority must:

(1) Be an original classification authority with jurisdiction over the information.

(2) Ensure that the information continues to meet the standards for classification under the Executive Order.

(3) Make reasonable attempts to notify all known holders of the information. Information classified under prior orders marked with a specific date or event for declassification is automatically declassified upon that date or event. Information classified under prior orders marked with Originating Agency's Determination Required (OADR) shall:

(i) Be declassified by a declassification authority as defined in Section 3.1 of the Executive Order.

(ii) Be re-marked by an authorized original classification authority with jurisdiction over the information to establish a duration of classification consistent with the Executive Order.

(iii) Be subject to Section 3.4 of the Executive Order if the records are determined to be of historical value and are to remain classified for 25 years from the date of its original classification.
