
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1312 - CLASSIFICATION, DOWNGRADING, DECLASSIFICATION AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information
###### ยง 1312.8 Standard identification and markings.
####### Declassification instructions.

(4)These instructions shall indicate the following:

(i) The duration of the original classification decision shall be placed on the "Declassify On" line.

(ii) The date or event for declassification that corresponds to the lapse of the information's national security sensitivity, which may not exceed 10 years from the date of the original decision.

(iii) When a specific date or event within 10 years cannot be established, the classifier will apply the date that is 10 years from the date of the original decision.

(iv) The exemption category from declassification. Upon determination that the information must remain classified beyond 10 years, the classifier will apply the letter "X" plus a brief recitation of the exemption category(ies), or the letter "X" plus the number that corresponds to the exemption category(ies) in Section 1.6(d) of the Executive Order.

(v) An original classification authority may extend the duration of classification for successive periods not to exceed 10 years at a time. The "Declassify On" line shall be revised to include the new declassification instructions and shall include the identity of the person authorizing the extension and the date of the action.

(vi) Information exempted from automatic declassification at 25 years should on the "Declassify On" line be revised to include the symbol "25X" plus a brief reference to the pertinent exemption categories/numbers of the Executive Order.

(5) The overall classification of the document is the highest level of information in the document and will be conspicuously placed stamped at the top and bottom of the outside front and back cover, on the title page, and on the first page.

(6) The highest classification of individual pages will be stamped at the top and bottom of each page, to include "unclassified" when it is applicable.

(7) The classification of individual portions of the document, (ordinarily a paragraph, but including subjects, titles, graphics) shall be marked by using the abbreviations (TS), (S), (C), or (U), will be typed or marked at the beginning or end of each paragraph or section of the document. If all portions of the document are classified at the same level, this may be indicated by a statement to that effect.
