
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1312 - CLASSIFICATION, DOWNGRADING, DECLASSIFICATION AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information
###### ยง 1312.8 Standard identification and markings.
####### Derivative classification.

(b)Information classified derivatively on the basis of source documents shall carry the following markings on those documents:

(1) The derivative classifier shall concisely identify the source document(s) or the classification guide on the "Derived From" line, including the agency and where available the office of origin and the date of the source or guide. When a document is classified derivatively on the basis of more than one source document or classification guide, the "Derived From" line shall appear as "Derived From: Multiple Sources".

(2) The derivative classifier shall maintain the identification of each source with the file or record copy of the derivatively classified document. Where practicable the copies of the document should also have this list attached.

(3) A document derivatively classified on the basis of a source document that is itself marked "Multiple Sources" shall cite the source document on its "Derived From" line rather than the term "Multiple Sources".

(4) The reason for the original classification decision, as reflected in the source document, is not required to be transferred in a derivative classification action.

(5) Declassification instructions shall carry forward the instructions on the "Declassify On" line from the source document to the derivation document or the duration instruction from the classification guide. Where there are multiple sources, the longest duration of any of its sources shall be used.

(6) When a source document or classification guide contains the declassification instruction "Originating Agency's Determination Required" (OADR) the derivative document shall carry forward the fact that the source document(s) were so marked and the date of origin of the most recent source document (s).

(7) The derivatively classified document shall be conspicuously marked with the highest level of classification of information.

(8) Each portion of a derivatively classified document shall be marked in accordance with its source.

(9) Each office shall, consistent with Section 3.8 of the Executive Order, establish and maintain a database of information that has been declassified.
