
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1312 - CLASSIFICATION, DOWNGRADING, DECLASSIFICATION AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Classification and Declassification of National Security Information
###### ยง 1312.8 Standard identification and markings.
####### Additional Requirements.

(c)(1) Markings other than "Top Secret", "Secret", and "Confidential" shall not be used to identify classified national security information.

(2) Transmittal documents will be stamped to indicate the highest classification of the information transmitted, and shall indicate conspicuously on its face the following or something similar "Unclassified When classified Enclosure Removed" to indicate the classification of the transmittal document standing alone.

(3) The classification data for material other than documents will be affixed by tagging, stamping, recording, or other means to insure that recipients are aware of the requirements for the protection of the material.

(4) Documents containing foreign government information shall include the markings "This Document Contains (country of origin) Information". If the identity of the specific government must be concealed, the document shall be marked" This Document Contains Foreign Government Information," and pertinent portions marked "FGI" together with the classification level, e.g., "(FGI-C)". In such cases, separate document identifying the government shall be maintained in order to facilitate future declassification actions.

(5) Documents, regardless of medium, which are expected to be revised prior to the preparation of a finished product-working papers-shall be dated when created, marked with highest classification, protected at that level, and destroyed when no longer needed. When any of the following conditions exist, the working papers shall be controlled and marked in the same manner as prescribed for a finished classified document:

(i) Released by the originator outside the originating activity;

(ii) Retained more than 180 days from the date of origin;

(iii) Filed permanently.

(6) Information contained in unmarked records, or Presidential or related materials, and which pertain to the national defense or foreign relations of the U.S. and has been maintained and protected as classified information under prior orders shall continue to be treated as classified information under the Executive Order and is subject to its provisions regarding declassification.
