
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1312 - CLASSIFICATION, DOWNGRADING, DECLASSIFICATION AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Control and Accountability of Classified Information
###### ยง 1312.31 Security violations.
####### Responsibilities for processing security violations,EOP Security Officer.

(d)-(1)The EOP Security Officer shall provide OMB with assistance regarding Agency security violations. Upon receipt of a Record of Security Violation alleging a security violation, the EOP Security Officer shall:

(i) Prepare a memorandum to the immediate supervisor of the office/division responsible for the violation requesting that an inquiry be made into the incident. Attached to the memorandum will be a copy of the Record of Security Violation form. The receiving office/division will prepare a written report within five working days of its receipt of the Security Officer's memorandum.

(ii) Provide any assistance needed for the inquiry conducted by the office/division involved in the alleged violation.

(iii) Upon receipt of the report of inquiry from the responsible office/division, the EOP Security Officer will:

(A) Consult with the OMB Associate Director (or Assistant Director) for Administration and the General Counsel;

(B) Determine if a damage assessment report is required. A damage assessment will be made by the agency originating the classified information, and will be prepared after it has been determined that the information was accessed without authorization; and

(C) Forward the report with a recommendation to the OMB General Counsel.
