
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter III - Office of Management and Budget
### Subchapter B - OMB Directives
#### PART 1315 - PROMPT PAYMENT
##### ยง 1315.17 Formulas.
###### www.fms.treas.gov/prompt/index/.html.

(2) Agencies may use a rebate spreadsheet which automatically calculates the net savings to the government and whether the agency should pay early or late. The only variables required for input to this spreadsheet are the CVF rate, the Maximum Discount Rate, that is, the rate from which daily basis points offered by the card issuer are derived, and the amount of debt. This spreadsheet is available for use on the prompt payment website at

(3) If agencies chose not to use the spreadsheet, the following may be used to determine whether to pay early or late. To calculate whether to pay early or late, agencies must first determine the respective basis points. To obtain Daily Basis Points offered by card issuer, refer to the agency's contract with the card issuer. Use the following formula to calculate the average daily basis points of the CVF rate:

(4) For example: The daily basis points offered to agency X by card issuer Y are 1.5 basis points. That is, for every day the agency delays paying the card issuer the agency loses 1.5 basis points in savings. At a CVF of 5 percent, the daily basis points of the Current Value of Funds Rate are 1.4 basis points. That is, every day the agency delays paying, the government earns 1.4 basis points. The basis points were calculated using the formula:

(5) Because 1.5 is greater than 1.4, the agency should pay as early as possible. If the basis points offered by the card issuer are less than the daily basis points of the government" funds (if for instance the rebate equaled 1.3 basis points and the CVF was still 1.4 basis points or if the rebate equaled 1.5 but the CVF equaled 1.6), the government will minimize costs by paying as late as possible, but by the payment due date.
