
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 177 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
##### ยง 177.105 Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.
###### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by OPM or another Federal agency. On written request, OPM will make available to the claimant a copy of the report of the examining physician employed by the United States, provided the claimant has furnished OPM with the report referred to in the first sentence of this subparagraph. In addition, the claimant must have made or agrees to make available to OPM all other physician's reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition that is the subject matter of his or her claim.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment.

(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full-or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.

(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.

(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
