
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1601 - PARTICIPANTS' CHOICES OF TSP FUNDS
#### Subpart B - Investing Future Deposits
##### ยง 1601.13 Elections.
###### Investment election.

(a)Each participant may indicate his or her choice of TSP core funds for the allocation of future deposits in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section apply to investment elections:

(1) Investment elections must be made in one percent increments. The sum of the percentages elected for all of the TSP core funds must equal 100 percent.

(2) The percentage elected by a participant for investment of future deposits in a TSP core fund will be applied to all sources of contributions and rollovers from traditional IRAs and eligible employer plans. A participant may not make different percentage elections for different sources of contributions.

(3) The following default investment rules shall apply to civilian participants:

(i) All deposits made on behalf of a civilian participant enrolled prior to September 5, 2015, who does not have an investment election in effect will be invested in the G Fund. A civilian participant who is enrolled prior to September 5, 2015, and subsequently rehired on or after September 5, 2015, and has a positive account balance will be considered enrolled prior to September 5, 2015 for purposes of this paragraph (a)(3)(i); and

(ii) All deposits made on behalf of a civilian participant first enrolled on or after September 5, 2015, who does not have an investment election in effect will be invested in the age-appropriate TSP Lifecycle Fund.

(iii) A civilian participant enrolled prior to September 5, 2015, who elects for the first time to invest in a TSP core fund other than the G Fund must execute an acknowledgement of risk in accordance with ยง 1601.33.

(4) The default investment rule in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section apply to uniformed services participants:

(i) All deposits made on behalf of a uniformed services participant who first entered service prior to January 1, 2018, has not elected to be covered by BRS, and does not have an investment election in effect will be invested in the G Fund.

(ii) All deposits made on behalf of a uniformed services participant who first entered service on or after January 1, 2018, and who does not have an investment election in effect will be invested in the age-appropriate TSP Lifecycle Fund.

(iii) If a uniformed services participant makes an election to be covered by BRS as described in 5 CFR 1600.14 and does not have an investment election in effect at the time of the election, then all deposits made after the date of such election will be invested in the age-appropriate TSP Lifecycle Fund. Deposits made prior to the date of the election will remain invested in the G Fund.

(iv) A uniformed services participant who first entered service prior to January 1, 2018, and has not made an election to be covered by the BRS who elects for the first time to invest in a TSP core fund other than the G Fund must execute an acknowledgement of risk in accordance with ยง 1601.33.

(5) Once an investment election becomes effective, it remains in effect until it is superseded by a subsequent investment election or the participant's account balance is reduced to zero. If a rehired participant has a positive account balance and an investment election in effect, then the participant's investment election will remain in effect until a new election is made. If, however, the participant (other than a participant described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section) has a zero account balance, then the participant's contributions will be allocated to the age-appropriate TSP Lifecycle Fund until a new investment election is made.
