
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1601 - PARTICIPANTS' CHOICES OF TSP FUNDS
#### Subpart D - Investment Elections and Fund Reallocation and Fund Transfer Requests
##### ยง 1601.32 Timing and posting dates.
###### Posting dates.

(a)The date on which an investment election or fund reallocation or fund transfer request (transaction request) is processed is subject to a number of factors, including some that are outside of the control of the TSP, such as power outages, the failure of telephone service, unusually heavy transaction volume, and acts of God. These factors also could affect the availability of the TSP website and the ThriftLine. Therefore, the TSP cannot guarantee that a transaction request will be processed on a particular day. However, the TSP will process transaction requests under ordinary circumstances described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) A transaction request other than an investment election request entered into the TSP record keeping system by a participant who uses the TSP website or the ThriftLine, before 12 noon eastern time of any business day, will ordinarily be posted that business day. A transaction request other than an investment election request entered into the system at or after 12 noon eastern time of any business day will ordinarily be posted on the next business day. A transaction request that is an investment election request will ordinarily be posted immediately and be effective the next business day.

(2) A transaction request made on the TSP website or the ThriftLine on a non-business day will ordinarily be posted on the next business day.

(3) A transaction request made on a paper TSP form will ordinarily be posted under the rules in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, based on when the TSP record keeper enters the form into the TSP system. The TSP record keeper ordinarily enters such forms into the system within 48 hours of their receipt.

(4) In most cases, the share price(s) applied to a fund reallocation or fund transfer request is the value of the shares on the date the relevant transaction is posted. In some circumstances, such as error correction, the share price(s) for an earlier date will be used.
