
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1605 - CORRECTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ERRORS
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1605.3 Calculating, posting, and charging breakage on errors involving investment in the wrong fund.

(a) The TSP record keeper will calculate and post breakage on date of birth errors that result in default investment in the wrong L Fund, investment election errors, and fund reallocation and fund transfer errors.

(b) The TSP record keeper will charge the employing agency for positive breakage on incorrect dates of birth caused by employing agency error that result in default investment in the wrong L Fund. A date of birth change received from an employing agency will not trigger corrective action other than to update the date of birth. To initiate a breakage calculation for an employee, the employing agency must notify the TSP record keeper that the participant is entitled to breakage.

(c) If a uniformed services participant's retirement system is misclassified and the error results in default investment in the wrong fund, when the error is corrected pursuant to ยง 1605.14(f)-(g), the TSP record keeper will charge the employing agency for any positive breakage that results from the incorrect default investment. The retirement misclassification correction received from an employing agency will not trigger corrective action other than to update the participant's retirement system coverage. To initiate a breakage calculation for the uniformed service member, the employing agency must notify the TSP record keeper that the participant is entitled to breakage.
