
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1620 - EXPANDED AND CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY
#### Subpart E - Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) - Covered Military Service
##### ยง 1620.45 Suspending TSP loans, restoring post-employment distributions, and reversing loan foreclosures..
###### Suspending TSP loans during nonpay status.

(a)If the TSP record keeper is notified that an employee entered into a nonpay status to perform military service, any outstanding TSP loan from a civilian TSP account will be suspended, that is, it will not be declared a loan foreclosure while the employee is performing military service.

(1) Interest will accrue on the loan balance during the period of suspension. When the employee returns to civilian pay status, the employing agency will resume deducting loan payments from the participant's basic pay and the TSP record keeper will reamortize the loan (which will include interest accrued during the period of military service). The maximum loan repayment term will be extended by the employee's period of military service. Consequently, when the employee returns to pay status, the TSP record keeper must receive documentation to show the beginning and ending dates of military service.

(2) The TSP record keeper may close the loan account and declare it to be a loan foreclosure if the TSP record keeper does not receive documentation that the employee entered into nonpay status. However, this can be reversed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
