
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1630 - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 1630.4 Request for notification and access.
##### www.tsp.gov.

(2) Participants may also inquire whether this system contains records about them and access certain records through the account access section of the TSP website and the ThriftLine (the TSP's automated telephone system). The TSP website isTo use the TSP ThriftLine, the participant must have a touch-tone telephone and call (877) 968-3778. Information such as account balance and transaction status is available on the TSP website and the ThriftLine. To access these features, the participant may be required to verify his or her identity by providing identifying particulars.

(3) A Privacy Act request which is incorrectly submitted to the Board will not be considered received until received by the record keeper. The Board will submit such a Privacy Act request to the record keeper within three workdays. A Privacy Act request which is incorrectly submitted to the record keeper will not be considered received until received by the employing agency. The record keeper will submit such a Privacy Act request to the employing agency within three workdays.

(4) No disclosure history will be made when the Board contracts for an audit of TSP financial statements (which includes the review and sampling of TSP account balances).

(5) No disclosure history will be made when the Department of Labor or the General Accounting Office audits TSP financial statements (which includes the review and sampling of TSP account balances) in accordance with their responsibilities under chapter 84 of title 5 of the U.S. Code. Rather, a requester will be advised that these agencies have statutory obligations to audit TSP activities and that in the course of such audits they randomly sample individual TSP accounts to test for account accuracy.
