
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1630 - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 1630.12 Action on request to amend a record.

(a) For TSP records, the record keeper will acknowledge a request for amendment of a record, which is to be decided by that office in accordance with the chart in ยง 1630.11, within 10 work days. Requests received by the record keeper which are to be decided by the current or former employing agency will be sent to that agency by the record keeper within 3 work days of the date of receipt. A copy of the transmittal letter will be sent to the requester.

(b) For non-TSP records, the Privacy Act Officer will acknowledge a request for amendment of a record within 10 work days of the date the Board receives it. If a decision cannot be made within this time, the requester will be informed by mail of the reasons for the delay and the date when a reply can be expected, normally within 30 work days from receipt of the request.

(c) The final response will include the decision whether to grant or deny the request. If the request is denied, the response will include:

(1) The reasons for the decision;

(2) The name and address of the official to whom an appeal should be directed;

(3) The name and address of the official designated to assist the individual in preparing the appeal;

(4) A description of the appeal process with the Board; and

(5) A description of any other procedures which may be required of the individual in order to process the appeal.
