
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1631 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552
##### ยง 1631.3 Organization and functions.

(a) The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board was established by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-335, 5 U.S.C. 8401 et seq.). Its primary function is to manage and invest the Thrift Savings Fund for the exclusive benefit of its participants (e.g., participating Federal employees, Federal judges, and Members of Congress). The Board is responsible for investment of the assets of the Thrift Savings Fund and the management of the Thrift Savings Plan. The Board consists of:

(1) The five part-time members who serve on the Board;

(2) The Office of the Executive Director;

(3) The Office of Participant Services;

(4) The Office of General Counsel;

(5) The Office of Investments;

(6) The Office of Communications and Education;

(7) The Office of Planning and Risk;

(8) The Office of External Affairs;

(9) The Office of Chief Financial Officer;

(10) The Office of Resource Management; and

(11) The Office of Technology Services.

(b) The Board has no field organization; however, it provides for its recordkeeping responsibility by contract or interagency agreement. The recordkeeper may be located outside of the Washington, DC area. Thrift Savings Plan records maintained for the Board by its recordkeeper are Board records subject to these regulations. Board offices are presently located at 77 K Street, NE., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20002.
