
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1631 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552
##### ยง 1631.4 Proactive disclosure of Board records.
###### https://www.frtib.gov,frtibfoialiaison@tsp.gov

(a) Records that are required by the FOIA to be made available for public inspection and copying may be accessed through the Board's Web site at. The Board is responsible for determining which of its records are required to be made publicly available, as well as identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records. The Board shall ensure that its Web site of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The Board has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records particular to a component. The FOIA Public Liaison can be contacted at.

(b) The FOIA Officer shall maintain an index of Board regulations, directives, bulletins, and published materials.

(c) The FOIA officer shall also maintain a file open to the public, which shall contain copies of all grants or denials of FOIA requests, appeals, and appeal decisions by the Executive Director. The materials shall be filed by chronological number of request within each calendar year, indexed according to the exceptions asserted, and, to the extent feasible, indexed according to the type of records requested.
