
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 315 - CAREER AND CAREER-CONDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart F - Career or Career-Conditional Appointment Under Special Authorities
###### ยง 315.612 Noncompetitive appointment of certain military spouses.
####### Eligibility.

(c)(1)(i) A spouse of a member of the armed forces as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must be currently married to the member of the armed forces on active duty.

(ii) For appointments made on or after August 13, 2023, the following additional criteria must be met for eligibility for appointment (for appointments made prior to or on August 12, 2023, the criteria in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) does not apply):

(A) The member of the armed forces must have received orders authorizing a permanent change of station.

(B) The spouse must have married the member of the armed forces on, or prior to, the date of such orders authorizing the permanent change of station.

(C) The spouse must have relocated or is relocating with the member of the armed forces to the new duty station specified in the documentation ordering the permanent change of station.

(2) A spouse of a member of the armed forces as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section must be currently married to the member of the armed forces.

(3) A spouse of a member of the armed forces as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section must be the un-remarried widow or widower of the member of the armed forces killed on active duty in the armed forces.

(4) Except as indicated in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, noncompetitive appointment of eligible spouses under this section are not restricted to a geographical location.

(5) Beginning August 13, 2023, the noncompetitive appointment of a relocating spouse of a member of the armed forces as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section is limited to the geographic area of the permanent duty station of the member of the armed forces, unless there is no agency with a position within the geographic area of the permanent duty station of the member of the armed forces.
