
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1632 - RULES REGARDING PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF MEETINGS
#### ยง 1632.10 Transcripts, recordings, and minutes.

(a) The Board will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording or transcription thereof adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation pursuant to exemption (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), or (a)(9)(ii) of ยง 1632.5 of this part. Transcriptions of recordings will disclose the identity of each speaker.

(b) The Board will maintain either such a transcript, recording or transcription thereof, or a set of minutes that will fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question), for meetings or portions of meetings closed to public observation pursuant to exemptions (a)(8), (a)(9)(i)(A) or (a)(10) of ยง 1632.5 of this part. The minutes will identify all documents considered in connection with any action taken.

(c) Transcripts, recordings or transcriptions thereof, or minutes will promptly be made available to the public in the External Affairs Office except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as may be determined to contain information that may be withheld under subsection (c) of the Act and ยง 1632.5 of this part. These documents, disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(d) A complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording or verbatim copy of a transcription thereof of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation will be maintained for a period of at least two years, or one year after the conclusion of any Board proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.
