
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1639 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Salary Offset
##### ยง 1639.27 Procedures for salary offset.
###### Deductions from other sources.

(4)If an employee subject to salary offset is separated from the Board, and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary check, the Board may offset any later payments of any kind against the balance of the debt, as allowed by 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR chapter II.

(e) Multiple debts. In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offsets, or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Board's payroll office may, at its discretion, determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15 percent limitation.

(f) Precedence of debts owed to the Board. For Board employees, debts owed to the Board generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. In the event that a debt to the Board is certified while an employee is subject to a salary offset to repay another agency, the Board may decide whether to have the first debt repaid in full before collecting the claim or whether changes should be made in the salary deduction being sent to the other agency. If debts owed the Board can be collected in one pay period, the Board payroll office may suspend the salary offset to the other agency for that pay period in order to liquidate the debt to the Board. When an employee owes two or more debts, the best interests of the Board will be the primary con sideration in the payroll office's determination of the order in which the debts should be collected.
