
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1639 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Salary Offset
##### ยง 1639.28 Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
###### Requesting recovery from current paying agency.

(3)Upon completion of the procedures established in these regulations and pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, the Board will provide the paying agency with a certification as provided in ยง 1639.24.

(4) If the employee is in the process of separating and has not received a final salary check or other final payment(s) from the paying agency, the Board must submit a debt claim to the paying agency for collection under 31 U.S.C. 3716. The paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection on the debt and notify the employee and the Board. If the paying agency's collection does not fully satisfy the debt, and the paying agency is aware that the debtor is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar payments that may be due the debtor employee from other Federal Government sources, the paying agency will provide written notice of the outstanding debt to the agency responsible for making the other payments to the debtor employee. The written notice will state that the employee owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. The Board must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making the payments before the collection can be made.
