
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1639 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - Tax Refund Offset
##### ยง 1639.42 Notice requirements before tax refund offset.

(a) The Board must notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify, the person:

(1) The amount of the debt and that the debt is past due; and

(2) Unless repaid within 60 days, the debt will be referred to the Department of the Treasury for offset against any refund of overpayment of tax.

(b) The Board will provide a mailing address for forwarding any written correspondence and a contact name and telephone number for any questions concerning the offset.

(c) The Board will give the individual debtor at least 60 days from the date of the notice to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable. The Board will consider the evidence presented by the individual and will make a determination whether any amount of the debt is past due and legally enforceable. For purposes of this section, evidence that collection of the debt is affected by a bankruptcy proceeding involving the individual will bar referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury.

(d) Notice given to a debtor under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall advise the debtor of how he or she may present evidence to the Board that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable. Such evidence may not be referred to, or considered by, individuals who are not officials, employees, or agents of the United States in making the determination required under paragraph (c) of this section. Unless such evidence is directly considered by an official or employee of the Board, and the determination required under paragraph (c) of this section has been made by an official or employee of the Board, any unresolved dispute with the debtor regarding whether all or part of the debt is past due or legally enforceable must be referred to the Board for ultimate administrative disposition, and the Board must directly notify the debtor of its determination.
