
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1639 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart D - Administrative Offset
##### ยง 1639.52 Board review.

(a) A debtor may dispute the existence of the debt, the amount of debt, or the terms of repayment. A request to review a disputed debt must be submitted to the Board official who provided the notice of intent to offset within 30 calendar days of the debtor's receipt of the written notice described in ยง 1639.51.

(b) If the debtor requests an opportunity to inspect or copy the Board's records concerning the disputed claim, the Board will grant 10 business days for the review. The time period will be measured from the time the request for inspection is granted or from the time the debtor receives a copy of the records.

(c) Pending the resolution of a dispute by the debtor, transactions in any of the debtor's account(s) maintained in the Board may be temporarily suspended to the extent of the debt that is owed. Depending on the type of transaction, the suspension could preclude its payment, removal, or transfer, as well as prevent the payment of interest or discount due on the transaction. Should the dispute be resolved in the debtor's favor, the suspension will be immediately lifted.

(d) During the review period, interest, penalties, and administrative costs authorized by law will continue to accrue.

(e) If the debtor does not exercise the right to request a review within the time specified in this section or if, as a result of the review, it is determined that the debt is due and no written agreement is executed, then administrative offset will be ordered in accordance with the regulations in this subpart without further notice.
