
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 315 - CAREER AND CAREER-CONDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart F - Career or Career-Conditional Appointment Under Special Authorities
###### ยง 315.614 Hiring Authority for College Graduates.
####### Public notice and advertising.,www.USAJOBS.gov

(e)An agency must adhere to merit system principles, and thus must publicly advertise the position in a manner that endeavors to reach qualified individuals from all segments of society, including notifying OPM, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3327(b), before filling a position under this authority. To meet this requirement, an agency must display information about the position to be filled on its home page (that is accessible to the general public). An agency may, but is not required to, usefor this purpose. Alternatively, an agency may either provide an actual job announcement on its public-facing web page (home page) or provide a link to the job announcement on its public-facing homepage. The agency should consider whether additional recruitment and advertisement activities are necessary or appropriate to further merit system principles. If USAJOBS is not used to advertise the position, the agency must satisfy the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 3327(b) by providing OPM information about the position in the same format it usually would when posting a position on USAJOBS. A job announcement must include, at a minimum, the following information:

(1) The position title, series, grade level;

(2) The geographic location where the position will be filled;

(3) The starting salary of the position;

(4) The minimum qualifications of the position;

(5) Whether the position has promotion protentional to higher grade levels;

(6) Any other relevant information about the position such as telework opportunities, recruitment incentives, etc.;

(7) Specific information instructing applicants on how to apply;

(8) Equal employment opportunity statement (Agencies may use the recommended equal employment opportunity statement located on OPM's USAJOBS website.); and

(9) Reasonable accommodation statement.
