
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1650 - METHODS OF WITHDRAWING FUNDS FROM THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1650.2 Eligibility and general rules for a TSP withdrawal.

(a) A participant who is separated from Government service can elect a distribution of all or a portion of his or her account balance by one or a combination of the distribution methods described in subpart B of this part.

(b) A post-employment distribution will not be paid unless TSP records indicate that the participant is separated from Government service. The TSP record keeper will, when possible, cancel a pending post-employment distribution election upon receiving information from an employing agency that a participant is no longer separated.

(c) A participant cannot make a full post-employment distribution of his or her account until any outstanding TSP loan has either been repaid in full or declared to be a loan foreclosure. An outstanding TSP loan will not affect a participant's eligibility for a partial post-employment distribution or an in-service withdrawal.

(d) A separated participant who is reemployed in a position in which he or she is eligible to participate in the TSP is subject to the following rules:

(1) A participant who is reemployed in a TSP-eligible position on or before the 31st full calendar day after separation is not eligible to withdraw his or her TSP account in accordance with subpart B of this part.

(2) A participant who is reemployed in a TSP-eligible position more than 31 full calendar days after separation and who made a post-employment withdrawal while separated may not withdraw any remaining portion of his or her account balance in accordance with subpart B of this part until he or she again separates from Government service.

(e) A participant who has not separated from Government service may be eligible to withdraw all or a portion of his or her account in accordance with subparts D and E of this part.

(f) A participant can elect to have any portion of a single or installment payment that is not rolled over to an eligible employer plan, traditional IRA, or Roth IRA deposited directly, by electronic funds transfer (EFT), into a savings or checking account at a financial institution in the United States.

(g) If a participant has a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account, the rules in this part apply to each account separately. For example, the participant is eligible to make four age-based in-service withdrawals from the civilian account and four age-based in-service withdrawals from the uniformed services account per calendar year. A separate withdrawal request must be made for each account.

(h) A participant may elect to have his or her TSP withdrawal distributed from the participant's traditional balance only, Roth balance only, or pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. Any distribution from the traditional balance will be prorated between the tax-deferred balance and any tax-exempt balance. Any distribution from the Roth balance will be prorated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all TSP withdrawals will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All prorated amounts will be based on the balances in each TSP core fund or source of contributions on the day the TSP withdrawal is processed.
