
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter I - Office of Personnel Management
### Subchapter B - Civil Service Regulations
#### PART 315 - CAREER AND CAREER-CONDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart F - Career or Career-Conditional Appointment Under Special Authorities
###### ยง 315.614 Hiring Authority for College Graduates.
####### Numerical limit on the number of appointments.

(i)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the total number of individuals that an agency may appoint under this authority during a fiscal year may not exceed 15 percent of the number of individuals that the agency appointed during the previous FY to a position in the competitive service classified in a professional or administrative occupational category, at the GS-11 level or below, or equivalent, under competitive examining procedures. An appointing agency may not count appointments made using direct hire authorities, non-competitive authorities, excepted service authorities, or selections under merit promotion authorities, when establishing the limit for a given fiscal year. In calculating this limitation, agencies must round up or down to the nearest whole number, if necessary, to eliminate a decimal place. Values ending in ".5" or more may be rounded up to the nearest whole number in determining an agency's cap limitation. Values ending in less than ".5" should be rounded down to the nearest whole number in determining an agency's cap limitation.

(2) During any given fiscal year, OPM may establish a lower limitation on the number of individuals that may be appointed under paragraph (i)(1) of this section based on any factor OPM considers appropriate. OPM shall notify agencies via the OPM website to communicate any modification to the numerical limitation.
