
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1650 - METHODS OF WITHDRAWING FUNDS FROM THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN
#### Subpart G - Spousal Rights
##### ยง 1650.61 Spousal rights applicable to post-employment withdrawals.

(a) The spousal rights described in this section apply to total post-employment distributions when the married participant's vested TSP account balance exceeds $3,500, to partial post-employment distributions without regard to the amount of the participant's account balance, and to any change in the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series, including a change from payments calculated based on life expectancy to payments based on a fixed-dollar amount.

(b) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal notification requirement within 90 days of the date the distribution request is processed by the TSP record keeper, the spouse of a CSRS participant is entitled to notice when the participant applies for a post-employment distribution or makes a change to the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series. The participant must provide the TSP record keeper with the spouse's correct email or physical address to which to send the required notice.

(c) The spouse of a FERS or uniformed services participant has a right to a joint and survivor annuity with a 50 percent survivor benefit, level payments, and no cash refund based on the participant's entire account balance when the participant elects a total post-employment distribution.

(1) The participant may make a different total post-employment distribution election only if his or her spouse consents to that election and waives the right to this annuity.

(2) A participant's spouse must consent to any partial post-employment distribution election (other than an election to purchase this type of an annuity with such amount) and waive his or her right to this annuity with respect the amount distributed.

(3) A spouse must consent to any change in the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series and waive his or her right to this annuity with respect to the applicable amount. Spousal consent is not required to stop installment payments.

(4) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal consent requirement within 90 days of the date the distribution request is processed by the TSP record keeper, to show that the spouse has consented to a different total or partial post-employment distribution election or installment payment change and waived the right to this annuity with respect to the applicable amount, the participant must submit to the TSP record keeper a properly completed distribution request, signed by his or her spouse.

(5) The spouse's consent and waiver is irrevocable for the applicable distribution or installment payment change once the TSP record keeper has received it.
