
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VI - Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
### PART 1653 - COURT ORDERS AND LEGAL PROCESSES AFFECTING THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN ACCOUNTS
#### Subpart D - Process for the Enforcement of a Participant's Legal Obligation To Pay a Federal Tax Levy or Criminal Restitution Order
##### ยง 1653.32 Qualifying Federal tax levy.

(a) The TSP record keeper will only honor the terms of a tax levy that is qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) A tax levy must meet each of the following requirements to be considered qualifying:

(1) The Internal Revenue Service issued the levy.

(2) The levy includes a signature certifying that it attaches to a retirement plan.

(3) The levy requires the TSP to pay a stated dollar amount from a TSP participant's account.

(4) The levy is dated no earlier than thirty (30) days before receipt.

(5) The levy is issued in the name of the participant only.

(6) The levy expressly refers to the "Thrift Savings Plan" or describes the TSP in such a way that it cannot be confused with other Federal Government retirement benefits or non-Federal retirement benefits.

(c) The following levies will not be considered qualifying:

(1) A levy relating to a TSP account with a zero dollar account balance;

(2) A levy relating to a TSP account that contains only nonvested money, unless the money will become vested within 30 days of the date the TSP receives the order if the participant were to remain in Government service;

(3) A levy requiring the TSP to make a payment at a specified date in the future;

(4) A levy that does not contain a signature certifying that it applies to retirement plans;

(5) A levy requiring a series of payments;

(6) A levy that designates the specific TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance from which the payment or portions of the payment shall be made.
