
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VIII - Office of Special Counsel
### PART 1800 - FILING OF COMPLAINTS AND ALLEGATIONS
#### ยง 1800.2 Filing complaints of prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities.
##### Procedures for filing complaints alleging prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities (other than the Hatch Act).

(c)(1) Anyone may file a complaint with OSC alleging one or more prohibited personnel practices, or other prohibited activities within OSC's investigative jurisdiction. The OSC complaint form must be used to file all such complaints.

(2) OSC will not process a complaint filed in any format other than the completed OSC complaint form designated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. OSC will, however, accept material supplementing the contents of Form 14, as long as the filer also submits a signed form. If a filer does not use this form to submit a complaint, OSC will provide the filer with information about the form and obtain a signature on the form. The OSC complaint form will be considered to be filed on the date on which OSC receives a completed form.

(3) The OSC complaint form requests that the filer provide basic information about the alleged prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities. A complaint may be amended to clarify or include additional allegations. A complaint is sufficient for investigation when OSC receives information identifying the parties, identifying any relevant personnel action(s), and describing generally the practices or activities at issue.

(4) The OSC complaint form is available:
