
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VIII - Office of Special Counsel
### PART 1830 - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 1830.1 Scope and purpose.
##### See

(b) This part implements the Privacy Act of 1974, codified at 5 U.S.C. 552a, by establishing OSC policies and procedures for the release of records and maintenance of certain systems of records.5 U.S.C. 552a(f). This part also establishes policies and procedures for an individual to correct or amend their record if they believe it is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant or necessary to accomplish an OSC function.

(c) OSC personnel protected by the Privacy Act include all staff, experts, contractors, consultants, volunteers, interns, and temporary employees.

(d) Other individuals engaging with OSC protected by the Privacy Act include, but are not limited to, PPP complainants, subjects of PPP complaints, Hatch Act complainants, subjects of Hatch Act complaints, Hatch Act advisory opinion requesters, whistleblowers filing disclosures under 5 U.S.C. 1213, and USERRA complainants, and the subjects of USERRA complaints.

(e) This part does not:

(1) Apply to OSC record systems that are not Privacy Act Record Systems.

(2) Make any records available to individuals other than:

(i) individuals who are the subjects of the records ("subject individuals");

(ii) individuals who can prove they have the consent of the subject individual; or

(iii) individuals acting as legal representatives on behalf of such subject individuals.

(3) Make available information compiled by OSC in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings. The availability of such information, including to any subject individual or party to such litigation or proceeding, shall be governed by applicable constitutional principles, rules of discovery, privileges, and part 1820 of this chapter; or

(4) Apply to personnel records maintained by the Human Capital Office of OSC. Those records are subject to regulations of the Office of Personnel Management in 5 CFR parts 293, 294, and 297.
