
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter VIII - Office of Special Counsel
### PART 1850 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
#### ยง 1850.160 Communications.

(a) OSC shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.

(1) OSC shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by OSC.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, OSC shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with a disability.

(ii) OSC need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where OSC communicates with parties by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf individuals or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with individuals with impaired hearing.

(b) OSC shall ensure that interested individuals, including individuals with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) OSC shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, if any, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(d) This section does not require OSC to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where OSC personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, OSC has the burden of proving that compliance with this section would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Special Counsel or the Special Counsel's designee after considering all OSC resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, OSC shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
