
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XI - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 2100 - ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
#### ยง 2100.7 Request for correction or amendment.

(a) Requests to correct or amend a file shall be addressed to the system manager in which the file is located. The request must reasonably describe the record to be amended, the items to be changed as specifically as possible, the type of amendment (e.g., deletion, correction, amendment), and the reason for the amendment. The request should also include the reasons why the requester believes the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. The burden of proof will be upon the individual to furnish sufficient facts to persuade the change of the record of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, timeliness, or incompleteness of the record. Normally all documents submitted, to include court orders, shall be certified. Amendments under this part are limited to correcting factual matters and not matters of official judgement or opinions.

(b) Requirements of identification as outlined in ยง 2100.4 apply to requests to correct or amend a file.

(c) Incomplete requests shall not be honored, but the requester shall be contacted for the additional information needed to process the request.

(d) The amendment process is not intended to permit the alteration of evidence presented in the course of judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings. Any amendments or changes to these records normally are made through the specific procedures established for the amendment of such records.

(e) When records sought to be amended are actually covered by another issuance, the administrative procedures under that issuance must be exhausted before using the procedures under the Privacy Act.
