
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XI - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 2100 - ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
#### ยง 2100.9 Appeal of denial to grant access or to amend records.

(a) All appeals of denial to grant access or to amend records should be addressed to the appropriate facility at the following addresses: Associate Director, Resource Management, U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, 3700 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20317-0002; or, Administrative Services, U.S. Naval Home, 1800 Beach Drive, Gulfport, Mississippi 39507-1597. The appeal should be concise and should specify the reasons the requester believes that the initial action was not satisfactory. If an appeal is denied, the designated official will notify the requester of the reason for denial and of the right to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g). If an initial denial of a request to amend records is upheld, the requestor will also be advised of his or her right to file a statement of dispute disagreeing with the denial and such statement will be provided to all future users of the file.

(b) If the designated official decides to amend the record, the requester and all previous recipients of the disputed information will be notified of the amendment. If the appeal is denied, the designated official will notify the requester of the reason of the denial, of the requester's right to file a statement of dispute disagreeing with the denial, that such statement of dispute will be retained in the file, that the statement will be provided to all future users of the file, and that the requester may file suit in a Federal district court to contest the decision not to amend the record.

(c) The designated official will respond to all appeals within 30 working days or will notify the requester of an estimated date of completion if the 30 day limit cannot be met.
