
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XI - Armed Forces Retirement Home
### PART 2100 - ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
#### ยง 2100.13 Specific exemptions.

Subsection (k) of 5 U.S.C. 552a authorizes the AFRH to adopt rules designating eligible system of records as exempt from certain requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. To be eligible for a specific exemption under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k), the pertinent records within a designated system must contain one or more of the following:

(a) Investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes. If this information has been used to deny someone a right however, the AFRH must release it unless doing so would reveal the identify of a confidential source ((k)(2) exemption).

(b) Records used only for statistical, research, or other evaluation purposes, and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or privileges of individuals, except as permitted by 13 U.S.C. 8 (Use of census data) ((k)(4) exemption).

(c) Data compiled to determine suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. This information may be withheld only if disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source ((k)(5) exemption).

(d) Test or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service, the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process ((k)(6) exemption).
