
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter B - General Provisions
#### PART 2413 - OPEN MEETINGS
##### § 2413.5 Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.

A meeting shall be closed to public observation under § 2413.4, only when a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting vote to take such action.

(a) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 2413.4(a), the Authority members shall vote at the beginning of the meeting, or portion thereof, on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation and on whether the public interest requires that a meeting which may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority, shall be kept and made available to the public at the earliest practicable time.

(b) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 2413.4(b), the Authority shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation, and on whether there is a public interest which requires that a meeting which may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. The vote shall be taken at a time sufficient to permit inclusion of information concerning the open or closed status of the meeting in the public announcement thereof. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings at which the deliberations will concern the same particular matters where such subsequent meetings are scheduled to be held within thirty (30) days after the initial meeting. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority, shall be kept and made available for the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.

(c) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by deliberations during a meeting, or a portion thereof, requests that the Authority close that meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation for any of the reasons specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure), (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy), or (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes), the Authority members participating in the meeting, upon request of any one of its members, shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or a portion thereof, for that reason. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority participating in the meeting, shall be kept and made available to the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.

(d) After public announcement of a meeting as provided in § 2413.6, a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as closed may be opened, or a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as open may be closed only if a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting determine by a recorded vote that Authority business so requires and that an earlier announcement of the change was not possible. The change made and the vote of each member on the change shall be announced publicly at the earliest practicable time.

(e) Before a meeting may be closed pursuant to § 2413.4, the Solicitor of the Authority shall certify that in the Solicitor's opinion the meeting may properly be closed to public observation. The certification shall set forth each applicable exemptive provision for such closing. Such certification shall be retained by the agency and made publicly available as soon as practicable.
