
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 2422.3 What information should you include in your petition?
###### www.flra.gov.,www.flra.gov:

(a) You must file a petition either in writing with your signature or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site atYour petition must provide the following information on a form designated by the Authority, or on a substantially similar form, or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at

(1) The name and mailing address for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code.

(2) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition.

(3) The name and mailing address for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code. If a labor organization is affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included. If a labor organization is an exclusive representative of any of the employees affected by issues raised in the petition, the date of the recognition or certification and the date any collective bargaining agreement covering the unit will expire or when the most recent agreement did expire should be included, if known.

(4) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition.

(5) Your name and mailing address, including street number, city, state and zip code, and fax number and email address. If you are a labor organization affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included.

(6) A description of the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition. The description should generally indicate the geographic locations and the classifications of the employees included (or sought to be included) in, and excluded (or sought to be excluded) from, the unit.

(7) The approximate number of employees in the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition.

(8) A clear and concise statement of the issues raised by the petition and the results the petitioner seeks.

(9) A declaration by the person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that the contents of the petition are true and correct to the best of the person's knowledge and belief.

(10) The title, mailing address and telephone number of the person filing the petition.
