
# Title 5 - Administrative Personnel
## Chapter XIV - Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel
### Subchapter C - Federal Labor Relations Authority and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 2422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 2422.23 What election procedures are followed?
###### Observers.

(h)Subject to the Regional Director's approval, all parties may select representatives to observe at the polling location(s).

(1) A party who wants to name observers must file a written request with specific names with the Regional Director. This must be filed at least fifteen (15) days before an election. The Regional Director may grant an extension of time to file a request for named observers for good cause where a party requests an extension or on the Regional Director's own motion. The request must name and identify the observers requested.

(2) An agency or activity may use as its observers any employees who are not eligible to vote in the election, except:

(i) Supervisors or management officials;

(ii) Employees who have any official connection with any of the labor organizations involved; or

(iii) Non-employees of the Federal government.

(3) A labor organization may use as its observers any employees eligible to vote in the election, except:

(i) Employees on leave without pay status who are working for the labor organization involved; or

(ii) Employees who hold an elected office in the union.

(4) Within five (5) days after service of the request for observers, any party that objects must file an objection with the Regional Director that states the reasons.

(5) The Regional Director's ruling on requests for and objections to observers is final and binding, and parties may not file an application for review with the Authority.
