
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter E - Visas
#### PART 42 - VISAS: DOCUMENTATION OF IMMIGRANTS UNDER THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Immigrants Subject to Numerical Limitations
###### ยง 42.34 Special immigrant visas - certain U.S. Government employees.
####### Continuity.

(3)The alien's period of service need not have been continuous.

(4) Abroad. The service must have occurred anywhere outside the United States, as the term "United States" is defined in INA 101(a)(38).

(5) Employment at the American Institute in Taiwan. INA 101(a)(27)(D) permits both present and former employees of the American Institute in Taiwan to apply for special immigrant status. An alien's service before and after the founding of the American Institute in Taiwan is counted toward the minimum 15 years of service requirement.

(6) Honorably retired. Separations within the meaning of "honorably retired" include, for example, those resulting from mandatory or voluntary retirement, reduction-in-force, or resignation for personal reasons. Separations not within the meaning of "honorably retired" would include a termination for cause or an involuntary termination or resignation in lieu of a termination for cause.

(7) Definition of exceptional circumstances. The principal officer must determine that an alien demonstrates at least one form of "exceptional circumstances" to support an application for special immigrant status.

(i) Prima facie indicators of exceptional circumstances. In the following situations an alien's service with the U.S. government generally will be deemed to have met exceptional circumstances.

(A) Diplomatic relations between the alien's country of nationality and the United States have been severed;

(B) Diplomatic relations between the country in which the alien was employed and the United States have been severed;

(C) The country in which the alien was employed and the United States have strained relations and the employee may be subjected to retribution by the local, State, Federal, or other official government body merely because of association with the U.S. government, or the alien may be pressured to divulge information contrary to U.S. national interests; or

(D) The alien was hired as an employee at the Consulate General at Hong Kong on or before July 1, 1999.
