
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9b - REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEPARTMENT OF STATE PRESS BUILDING PASSES
##### ยง 9b.1 Press access to the Department of State.

(a) Media correspondents without valid Department of State press building passes shall have access to the Main State building identical to that enjoyed by members of the public.

(b) Media correspondents holding valid Department of State press building passes:

(1) May enter and have access 24 hours a day, during regular working hours, outside regular working hours, on weekends and on holidays, without an appointment, to the reception area of the Diplomatic Lobby, C Street Mezzanine area, press booths (Room 2310), press briefing room (Room 2118), and when in operation, the Office of Press Relations (Room 2109).

(2) May enter and have access without an appointment, on the basement level or on the first and second floors, to the cafeteria, post office, banks, concessionaries, barber shop, dry cleaners and the Foreign Affairs Recreation Association offices for the purposes for which they are established and when they are in operation.

(3) May not escort non-passholders into the Department of State building.

(c) Media correspondents, with or without a Department of State press building pass, may enter areas above the second floor of the Main State building only if the correspondent is invited by a Department employee to attend a specific social or official function in an office located above the second floor. Permission to enter areas above the second floor is strictly limited to direct passage to and from the appointment location of the Department of State employee, or the office or reception room where the function takes place.

(d) Possession of State Department press building pass does not confer access to or other privileges at other Federal buildings. It is not to be construed as official United States Government recognition, approval or accreditation of a correspondent.
