
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9b - REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEPARTMENT OF STATE PRESS BUILDING PASSES
##### ยง 9b.7 Procedures for denial, revocation, or non-renewal of Department of State press building passes.

(a) If the Director of the Office of Press Relations, Department of State, anticipates, after consultation with the Office of the Legal Adviser, that in applying the standard set forth in ยง 9b.6 a Department of State press building pass might be denied, revoked or not renewed, the media correspondent or technician will be notified in writing by the Director of the basis for the proposed denial in as much detail as the security of any confidential source of information will permit. This notification will be sent by registered mail.

(b) The notification of the proposed denial, revocation or non-renewal sent to the correspondent will also contain a statement advising the correspondent of his or her right to respond to the proposed denial and to rebut any factual basis supporting the proposed denial.

(c) The correspondent shall be allowed thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the proposed denial, revocation or non-renewal notification to respond in writing. The response shall consist of any explanation or rebuttal deemed appropriate by the correspondent and will be signed by the correspondent under oath or affirmation.

(d) If the correspondent is unable to prepare a response within 30 days, an extension for one additional 30-day period will be granted upon receipt of the correspondent's written request for such an extension.

(e) At the time of the filing of the media correspondent's or technician's written response to the notification of the proposed denial, revocation or non-renewal, the correspondent or technician may request, and will be granted, the opportunity to make a personal appearance before the Director of the Office of Press Relations, Department of State, for the purpose of personally supporting his/her eligibility for a press pass and to rebut or explain the factual basis for the proposed denial. The Director shall exercise, in consultation with the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the Office of the Legal Adviser, final review authority in the matter. The correspondent or technician may be represented by counsel during this appearance.

(f)(1) On the basis of the correspondent's or technician's written and personal response and the factual basis for the proposed denial, revocation or non-renewal, the Director of the Office of Press Relations, Department of State, will consult with the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the Office of the Legal Adviser to determine whether or not further inquiry or investigation concerning the issues raised is necessary.

(2) If a decision is made that no such inquiry is necessary, a final decision will be issued in conformity with paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) If a decision is made that such further inquiry is necessary, the Director of the Office of Press Relations of the Department of State, the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the Office of the Legal Adviser will conduct such further inquiry as is deemed appropriate. At the Director's discretion the inquiry may consist of:

(i) The securing of documentary evidence:

(ii) Personal interviews:

(iii) An informal hearing:

(iv) Any combination of paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.

(g) On the basis of the correspondent's or technician's written and personal response, the factual basis for the proposed denial and the additional inquiry provided for if such inquiry is conducted, the Director of the Office of Press Relations of the Department of State will consult with the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the Office of the Legal Adviser and expeditiously reach a final decision in accordance with the standard set forth in ยง 9b.6. If a final adverse decision is reached, the correspondent or technician will be notified of this final decision in writing. This notification will set forth as precisely as possible, and to the extent that security considerations permit, the factual basis for the denial in relation to the standard set forth in ยง 9b.6. This notification will be sent by registered mail and will be signed by the Director of the Office of Press Relations of the Department of State.
