
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter F - Nationality and Passports
#### PART 51 - PASSPORTS
##### Subpart D - Fees
###### § 51.51 Passport fees.

The Department collects the following passport fees in the amounts prescribed in the Schedule of Fees for Consular Services (22 CFR 22.1):

(a) An application fee, which must be paid at the time of application, except as provided in § 51.52, and is not refundable, except as provided in § 51.53.

(b) An execution fee, except as provided in § 51.52, when the applicant is required to execute the application in person before a person authorized to administer oaths for passport purposes. The execution fee is collected at the time of application and is not refundable (see § 51.55). When execution services are provided by an official of a State or local government or of the United States Postal Service (USPS), the State or local government or USPS may retain the fee if authorized to do so by the Department.

(c) A fee for expedited passport processing, if applicable (see § 51.56).

(d) A surcharge in the amount of twenty-two dollars ($22) on the filing of each application for a passport book, in the amount of twenty-two dollars ($22) on the filing of each application for a passport card for an applicant age 16 or over, and in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15) on the filing of each application for a passport card for an applicant under age 16, in order to cover the costs of meeting the increased demand for passports as a result of actions taken to comply with section 7209(b) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, Public Law 108-458 (8 U.S.C. 1185 note). The surcharge will be recovered by the Department of State from within the passport application fee reflected in the Schedule of Fees for Consular Services.

(e) An "enhanced border security" surcharge on the filing of each application for a regular passport in an amount set administratively by the Department and published in the Schedule of Fees for Consular Services.

(f) Any other fee that the Department is authorized or required by law to charge for passport services.

(g) The foregoing fees are applicable regardless of the validity period of the passport.
