
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 62.13 Notification requirements.
####### i.e.

(2) Failure of an exchange visitor to begin program. Sponsors must report in SEVIS, no later than 30 calendar days after the "Program Begin Date" listed in SEVIS, the failure of an exchange visitor to report to his or her sponsor upon entry in the United States (, failure of exchange visitor to begin an exchange visitor program as scheduled). This will change the status of the exchange visitor's SEVIS record from "Initial" to "No Show."

(3) End of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must report in SEVIS any withdrawal from or early completion of an exchange visitor's program that occurs prior to the "Program End Date" listed in SEVIS on the exchange visitor's Form DS-2019. Sponsors must not alter the "Program End Date" field, but should enter the date of program completion in the "Effective Date of Completion" field. This will change the status of the exchange visitor's SEVIS record from "Active" to "Inactive." Such notification in SEVIS ends a sponsor's programmatic obligations to the exchange visitor and/or his or her accompanying spouse and dependents.

(4) Accompanying spouse and dependent records. Sponsors must report in SEVIS if accompanying spouses and/or dependents depart from the United States prior to the exchange visitors' departure dates.

(5) Termination of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must promptly report in SEVIS the involuntary termination of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must not alter the "Program End Date" field, but should enter the date of program termination in the "Effective Date of Termination" field. This will change the status of the SEVIS record from "Active" to "Terminated". Such notification in SEVIS ends a sponsor's programmatic obligation to the exchange visitor and his or her accompanying spouse and dependents, if any, and prevents the sponsor from thereafter extending the exchange visitor's duration of participation, transferring the exchange visitor to another program, or changing the exchange visitor's category. Sponsors must not terminate the program of an exchange visitor who voluntarily ends his or her program.
