
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.22 Trainees and interns.
####### bona fide

(ii) Exchange Visitor Program training and internship programs must not be used as substitutes for ordinary employment or work purposes; nor may they be used under any circumstances to displace American workers. The requirements in these regulations for trainees are designed to distinguish betweentraining, which is permitted, and merely gaining additional work experience, which is not permitted. The requirements in these regulations for interns are designed to distinguish between a period of work-based learning in the intern's academic field, which is permitted (and which requires a substantial academic framework in the participant's field), and unskilled labor, which is not.

(2) In addition, a specific objective of the new internship program is to provide foreign nationals who are currently enrolled full-time and pursuing studies at a degree- or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institution or graduated from such an institution no more than 12 months prior to their exchange visitor program begin date a period of work-based learning to allow them to develop practical skills that will enhance their future careers. Bridging the gap between formal education and practical work experience and gaining substantive cross-cultural experience are major goals in educational institutions around the world. By providing training opportunities for current foreign students and recent foreign graduates at formative stages of their development, the U.S. Government will build partnerships, promote mutual understanding, and develop networks for relationships that will last through generations as these foreign nationals move into leadership roles in a broad range of occupational fields in their own societies. These results are closely tied to the goals, themes, and spirit of the Fulbright-Hays Act.
