
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.26 Specialists.
####### Purpose.

(b)The Exchange Visitor Program promotes the interchange of knowledge and skills among foreign and American specialists, who are defined as experts in a field of specialized knowledge or skills, and who visit the United States for the purpose of observing, consulting, or demonstrating their special skills. It does so by providing foreign specialists the opportunity to observe American institutions and methods of practice in their professional fields, and to share their specialized knowledge with their American colleagues. The exchange of specialists promotes mutual enrichment, and furthers linkages among scientific institutions, government agencies, museums, corporations, libraries, and similar types of institutions. Such exchanges also enable visitors to better understand American culture and society and enhance American knowledge of foreign cultures and skills. This category is intended for exchanges with experts in such areas, for example, as mass media communication, environmental science, youth leadership, international educational exchange, museum exhibitions, labor law, public administration, and library science. This category is not intended for experts covered by the exchange visitor categories listed in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section.
