
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.27 Alien physicians.
####### Clinical exchange programs.

(b)The Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates must sponsor alien physicians who wish to pursue programs of graduate medical education or training conducted by accredited U.S. schools of medicine or scientific institutions. Such Foreign Medical Graduates shall:

(1) Have adequate prior education and training to participate satisfactorily in the program for which they are coming to the United States;

(2) Be able to adapt to the educational and cultural environment in which they will be receiving their education or training;

(3) Have the background, needs, and experiences suitable to the program as required in ยง 62.10(a)(1);

(4) Have competency in oral and written English;

(5) Have passed either Parts I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination, the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination in the Medical Sciences, the United States Medical Licensing Examination, Step I and Step II, or the Visa Qualifying Examination (VQE) prepared by the National Board of Medical Examiners, administered by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. [NB-Graduates of a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education are exempted by law from the requirement of passing either Parts I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination or the Visa Qualifying Examination (VQE)]; and

(6) Provide a statement of need from the government of the country of their nationality or last legal permanent residence. Such statement must provide written assurance, satisfactory to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that there is a need in that country for persons with the skills the alien physician seeks to acquire and shall be submitted to the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates by the participant's government. The statement of need must bear the seal of the concerned government and be signed by a duly designated official of the government. The text of such statement of need shall read as follows:

(7) Submit an agreement or contract from a U.S. accredited medical school, an affiliated hospital, or a scientific institution to provide the accredited graduate medical education. The agreement or contract must be signed by both the alien physician and the official responsible for the training.
