
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.27 Alien physicians.
####### Non-clinical exchange programs.

(c)(1) A United States university or academic medical center which has been designated an exchange visitor program by the Secretary of State of the Department of State is authorized to issue From DS-2019 to alien physicians to enable them to come to the United States for the purposes of observation, consultation, teaching, or research if:

(i) The responsible officer or duly designated alternate of the exchange visitor program involved signs and appends to the Form DS-2019 a certification which states "this certifies that the program in which (name of physician) is to be engaged is solely for the purpose of observation, consultation, teaching, or research and that no element of patient care is involved" or

(ii) The dean of the involved accredited United States medical school or his or her designee certifies to the following five points and such certification is appended to the Form DS-2019 issued to the perspective exchange visitor alien physician:

(A) The program in which (name of physician) will participate is predominantly involved with observation, consultation, teaching, or research.

(B) Any incidental patient contact involving the alien physician will be under the direct supervision of a physician who is a U.S. citizen or resident alien and who is licensed to practice medicine in the State of ______.

(C) The alien physician will not be given final responsibility for the diagnosis and treatment of patients.

(D) Any activities of the alien physician will conform fully with the State licensing requirements and regulations for medical and health care professionals in the State in which the alien physician is pursuing the program.

(E) Any experience gained in this program will not be creditable towards any clinical requirements for medical specialty board certification.

(2) The Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates may also issue Form DS-2019 to alien physicians who are coming to the United States to participate in a program of observation, consultation, teaching, or research provided the required letter of certification as outlined in this paragraph is appended to the Form DS-2019.
