
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.27 Alien physicians.
####### Duration of participation.

(e)(1) The duration of an alien physician's participation in a program of graduate medical education or training as described in paragraph (b) of this section is limited to the time typically required to complete such program. Duration shall be determined by the Secretary of State at the time of the alien physician's entry into the United States. Such determination shall be based on criteria established in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and which take into consideration the requirements of the various medical specialty boards as set forth by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).

(2) Duration of participation is limited to seven years unless the alien physician has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the country to which the alien physician will return at the end of additional specialty education or training has an exceptional need for an individual with such additional qualification.

(3) Subject to the limitations set forth above, duration of participation may, for good cause shown, be extended beyond the period of actual training or education to include the time necessary to take an examination required for certification by a specialty board.

(4) The Secretary of State may include within the duration of participation a period of supervised medical practice in the United States if such practice is an eligibility requirement for certification by a specialty board.

(i) Alien physicians shall be permitted to undertake graduate medical education or training in a specialty or subspecialty program whose board and/or accreditation requirements are not published if the program requirements are certified to the Secretary of State by the ACGME in accordance with criteria established by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) and ACGME.

(ii) The Secretary of State may, for good cause shown, grant an extension of the program to permit an alien physician to repeat one year of clinical medical training.

(5) The alien physician must furnish the Attorney General each year with an affidavit (Form I-644) that attests the alien physician:

(i) Is in good standing in the program of graduate medical education or training in which the alien physician is participating; and

(ii) Will return to the country of his nationality or last legal permanent resident upon completion of the education or training for which he came to the United States.
