
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Specific Program Provisions
###### ยง 62.32 Summer work travel.
####### Sponsors' use of third parties.

(l)(1) If sponsors utilize foreign third party entities to assist in fulfilling the core programmatic functions of screening and orientation that may be conducted outside the United States, they must first obtain written and executed agreements with such third parties. For the purpose of this section, U.S. entities operating outside the United States (or its possessions or territories) are considered foreign entities. At a minimum, these written agreements must:

(i) Outline the obligations and full relationship between the sponsors and such third parties on all matters involving the administration of the sponsors' exchange visitor programs;

(ii) Delineate the parties' respective responsibilities;

(iii) Include annually updated price lists for Summer Work Travel Programs marketed by the foreign entities including itemizations of all costs charged to participants;

(iv) Contain representations that such foreign entities will not engage in, permit the use of, or otherwise cooperate or contract with other third parties (including staffing or employment agencies or subcontractors) for the purpose of outsourcing any core programmatic functions of screening and orientation covered by the agreement; and

(v) Confirm that the foreign entities agree not to pay or provide incentives to employers in the United States to accept program participants for job placements.

(2) If sponsors utilize domestic third party entities to assist in fulfilling the core programmatic functions of orientation and promoting mutual understanding, they must first obtain written and executed agreements with such third parties. Domestic third parties engaged by sponsors may not engage or subcontract any other parties to assist in fulfilling these core programmatic functions. Only host employers may assist in providing orientation to program participants. At a minimum, these written agreements must:

(i) Outline the obligations and full relationship between the sponsors and such third parties on all matters involving the administration of the sponsors' exchange visitor programs; and

(ii) Delineate the parties' respective responsibilities.
