
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Status of Exchange Visitors
###### ยง 62.45 Reinstatement to valid program status.
####### How do you determine if an infraction, other than those examples listed above is a technical or minor infraction?

(d)It is impossible to list every example of a technical or minor infraction. To guide you in making a determination, you are to examine the following criteria:

(1) Regardless of the reason, has the exchange visitor failed to maintain valid program status for more than 120 calendar days after the end date on the current Form DS-2019?

(2) Has the exchange visitor, by his or her actions, failed to maintain, at all relevant times, his or her original program objective?

(3) Has the exchange visitor willfully failed to comply with our insurance coverage requirements (ยง 62.14)?

(4) Has the exchange visitor engaged in unauthorized employment, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section?

(5) Has the exchange visitor category been involuntarily suspended or terminated from his or her program?

(6) Has an exchange visitor in the student category failed to maintain a full course of study (as defined in ยง 62.2) without prior consultation with you and the exchange visitor's academic advisor?

(7) Has the exchange visitor failed to pay the fee mandated by Public Law 104-208 (the "CIPRIS" fee)?

(8) If the answer to any of the above questions is "yes," then the infraction is not a technical or minor one and you are not authorized to reinstate the exchange visitor to valid program status.
