
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Sanctions
###### ยง 62.50 Sanctions.
####### Lesser sanctions.

(b)(1) In order to ensure full compliance with the regulations in this Part, the Department, in its discretion and depending on the nature and seriousness of the violation, may impose any or all of the following sanctions ("lesser sanctions") on a sponsor upon a finding that the sponsor engaged in any of the acts or omissions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section:

(i) A written reprimand to the sponsor, with a warning that repeated or persistent violations of the regulations in this part may result in suspension or revocation of the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation, or other sanctions as set forth herein;

(ii) A declaration placing the exchange visitor sponsor's program on probation, for a period of time determined by the Department in its discretion, signifying a pattern of violation of regulations such that further violations could lead to suspension or revocation of the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation, or other sanctions as set forth herein;

(iii) A corrective action plan designed to cure the sponsor's violations; or

(iv) Up to a 15 percent (15%) reduction in the authorized number of exchange visitors in the sponsor's program or in the geographic area of its recruitment or activity. If the sponsor continues to violate the regulations in this Part, the Department may impose subsequent additional reductions, in ten-percent (10%) increments, in the authorized number of exchange visitors in the sponsor's program or in the geographic area of its recruitment or activity.

(2) Within ten (10) days after service of the written notice to the sponsor imposing any of the sanctions set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the sponsor may submit to the Office a statement in opposition to or mitigation of the sanction. Such statement may not exceed 20 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. Sponsors shall include with all documentary material an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. Upon review and consideration of such submission, the Office may, in its discretion, modify, withdraw, or confirm such sanction. All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.

(3) The decision of the Office is the final Department decision with regard to lesser sanctions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
