
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Sanctions
###### ยง 62.50 Sanctions.
####### Suspension.

(c)(1) Upon a finding that a sponsor has committed a serious act of omission or commission which has or could have the effect of endangering the health, safety, or welfare of an exchange visitor, or of damaging the national security interests of the United States, the Office may serve the sponsor with written notice of its decision to suspend the designation of the sponsor's program for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) days. Such notice must specify the grounds for the sanction and the effective date thereof, advise the sponsor of its right to oppose the suspension, and identify the procedures for submitting a statement of opposition thereto. Suspension under this paragraph need not be preceded by the imposition of any other sanction or notice.

(2)(i) Within five (5) days after service of such notice, the sponsor may submit to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs (Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, or PDAS) a statement in opposition to the Office's decision. Such statement may not exceed 20 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. A sponsor shall include with all documentary material an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The submission of a statement in opposition to the Office's decision will not serve to stay the effective date of the suspension.

(ii) Within five (5) days after receipt of, and upon consideration of, such opposition, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall confirm, modify, or withdraw the suspension by serving the sponsor with a written decision. Such decision must specify the grounds therefore, and advise the sponsor of the procedures for requesting review of the decision.

(iii) All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.

(3) The procedures for review of the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary are set forth in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4), (g), and (h) of this section, except that the submission of a request for review will not serve to stay the suspension.
