
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Sanctions
###### ยง 62.50 Sanctions.
####### Revocation of designation.

(d)(1) Upon a finding of any act or omission set forth at paragraph (a) of this section, the Office may serve a sponsor with not less than thirty (30) days' written notice of its intent to revoke the sponsor's Exchange Visitor Program designation. Such notice must specify the grounds for the proposed sanction and its effective date, advise the sponsor of its right to oppose the proposed sanction, and identify the procedures for submitting a statement of opposition thereto. Revocation of designation under this paragraph need not be preceded by the imposition of any other sanction or notice.

(2)(i) Within ten (10) days after service of such written notice of intent to revoke designation, the sponsor may submit to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary a statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction, which may include a request for a meeting.

(ii) The submission of such statement will serve to stay the effective date of the proposed sanction pending the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary.

(iii) The Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall provide a copy of the statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction to the Office. The Office shall submit a statement in response, and shall provide the sponsor with a copy thereof.

(iv) A statement in opposition to or mitigation of the proposed sanction, or statement in response thereto, may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced and, if appropriate, may include additional documentary material. Any additional documentary material may include an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented.

(v) Upon consideration of such statements, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall modify, withdraw, or confirm the proposed sanction by serving the sponsor with a written decision. Such decision shall specify the grounds therefor, identify its effective date, advise the sponsor of its right to request a review, and identify the procedures for requesting such review.

(vi) All materials the sponsor submits will become a part of the sponsor's file with the Office.

(3) Within ten (10) days after service of such written notice of the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, the sponsor may submit a request for review with the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary. The submission of such request for review will serve to stay the effective date of the decision pending the outcome of the review.

(4) Within ten (10) days after receipt of such request for review, the Department shall designate a panel of three Review Officers pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, and the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall forward to each panel member all notices, statements, and decisions submitted or provided pursuant to the preceding paragraphs of paragraph (d) of this section. Thereafter, the review will be conducted pursuant to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
