
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 62 - EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Sanctions
###### ยง 62.50 Sanctions.
####### Review.

(h)The Review Officers may affirm, modify, or reverse the sanction imposed by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary. The following procedures shall apply to the review:

(1) Upon its designation, the panel of Review Officers shall promptly notify the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and the sponsor in writing of the identity of the Review Officers and the address to which all communications with the Review Officers shall be directed.

(2) Within fifteen (15) days after service of such notice, the sponsor may submit to the Review Officers four (4) copies of a statement identifying the grounds on which the sponsor asserts that the decision of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary should be reversed or modified. Any such statement may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced; and any attachments thereto shall not exceed 50 pages. A sponsor shall include with all attachments an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The Review Officers shall transmit one (1) copy of any such statement to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, who shall, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such statement, submit four (4) copies of a statement in response. Any such statement may not exceed 25 pages in length, double-spaced; and any attachments thereto shall not exceed 50 pages. The Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary shall include with all attachments an index of the documents and a summary of the relevance of each document presented. The Review Officers shall transmit one (1) copy of any such statement to the sponsor. No other submissions may be made unless specifically authorized by the Review Officers.

(3) If the Review Officers determine, in their sole discretion, that a meeting for the purpose of clarification of the written submissions should be held, they shall schedule a meeting to be held within twenty (20) days after the receipt of the last written submission. The meeting will be limited to no more than two (2) hours. The purpose of the meeting will be limited to the clarification of the written submissions. No transcript may be taken and no evidence, either through documents or by witnesses, will be received. The sponsor and the representative of the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary may attend the meeting on their own behalf and may be accompanied by counsel.

(4) Following the conclusion of the meeting, or the submission of the last written submission if no meeting is held, the Review Officers shall promptly review the submissions of the sponsor and the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, and shall issue a signed written decision within thirty (30) days, stating the basis for their decision. A copy of the decision will be delivered to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and the sponsor.

(5) If the Review Officers decide to affirm or modify the sanction, a copy of their decision shall also be delivered to the Department of Homeland Security and to the Bureau of Consular Affairs of the Department of State. The Office, at its discretion, may further distribute the decision.

(6) Unless otherwise indicated, the sanction, if affirmed or modified, is effective as of the date of the Review Officers' written decision, except in the case of suspension of program designation, which is effective as of the date specified pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
