
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.

Except with respect to the records made available under ยง 526.4, NED will, upon request that reasonably describes records in accordance with the requirements of this section, and subject to the exemptions listed in 5 U.S.C. 552(b), make such records promptly available to any person.

(a) Requests for records-How made and addressed. (1) Requesters seeking access to NED records under FOIA should direct all requests in writing to: Freedom of Information Act Officer, National Endowment for Democracy, 1101 15th St., NW; Suite 700, Washington, D.C. 20005-5000.

(2) Appeals of denials of initial requests must be addressed to NED in the same manner or to the Department of State pursuant to the procedures set forth at part 171 of this Title, with the addition of the word "APPEAL" preceding the address on the envelope. Appeals addressed directly to the Department of State will not be deemed to have been received by NED for purposes of the time period set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(1) until actually received by NED. The Department of State shall forward any appeal received by it to NED within 2 working days from the actual day of receipt by the Department of State.

(3) The request letter should contain all available data concerning the desired records, including a description of the material, dates, titles, authors, and other information that may help identify the records. The first paragraph of a request letter should state whether it is an initial request or an appeal.
