
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### Administrative time limits.

(b)(1) Within 10 working days after NED's receipt of any request for access to NED records in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, NED shall make an initial determination whether to provide the requested information and NED shall notify the requester in writing of its initial determination. In the event of an adverse determination, notification shall include the reasons for the adverse determination, the officials responsible for such determination, the right of the requester to appeal within NED, and that the final determination by NED to deny a request for records in whole or in part shall be submitted to the Secretary of State of Department of State for review. NED shall also provide Department of State a copy of its response as soon as practicable after it responds to the requester.

(2) When a request for records has been denied in whole or in part, the requester may, within 30 days of the date of receipt by the requester of the adverse determination from NED, appeal the denial to the President of NED or his designee, who will make a determination whether to grant or deny such appeal within 20 working days of receipt thereof. All appeals should be addressed in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. If on appeal, the denial of the request for records is upheld, in whole or in part, NED shall notify the requester in writing of such determination, the reasons therefor, the officials responsible for such determination, the right of the requester to judicial review, and that the final determination by NED whether to deny a request for records in whole or in part shall be submitted to the Secretary of State of Department of State for review.

(3) If the requester elects not to appeal to the President of NED or his designee within the appeal period specified above, NED's initial determination will become the final NED determination upon expiration of said appeal period or receipt by NED of notice from the requester that he does not elect to appeal, whichever is earlier. If the requester chooses to appeal NED's initial determination within NED, the decision on appeal will become NED's final determination.

(4)(i) Once NED's determination to deny a request in whole or in part becomes final, NED shall submit a report to the Secretary of State of Department of State explaining the reasons for such denial no later than 5 working days thereafter.

(ii) The Secretary of State of Department of State shall review NED's final determination within 20 working days. If the Secretary of State of Department of State or his designee approves NED's denial in whole or in part, Department of State shall inform the requester and NED in writing of such determination, the reasons therefor, the officials responsible for such determination, and the right of the requester to judicial review of NED's determination. In the event of such a determination, Department of State shall assume full responsibility, including financial responsibility, for defending NED in any litigation relating to such request.

(iii) If the Secretary of State of Department of State or his designee disapproves NED's denial in whole or in part, Department of State shall promptly notify NED and thereafter NED shall promptly comply with the request for the pertinent records.

(iv) Because review by the Secretary of State of Department of State may resolve any dispute over access to NED records in the requester's favor, the requester is encouraged (but not required) to wait for the determination on review by the Secretary of State of Department of State before seeking judicial review of NED's final determination.

(5) In unusual circumstances as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the time limit provisions noted in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section may be extended by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination can be expected. Such extensions of the time limits may not exceed 10 working days in the aggregate.

(6) Any person making a request for records pursuant to ยง 526.5 may consider administrative remedies exhausted if NED fails to comply within the applicable time limit provisions of this section. When no determination can be dispatched within the applicable time limits set forth in this section, NED shall nevertheless continue to process the request. On the expiration of the time limit, NED shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be dispatched, and of the requester's right to treat the delay as a denial and of the requester's right to appeal. NED may ask the requester to forego appeal until a determination is made. A copy of any such notice of delay will be sent to the Secretary of State of Department of State or to his designee no later than 2 working days after it has been sent to the requester. A court may retain jurisdiction and allow NED additional time to complete its review of the records, if it can be determined that exceptional circumstances exist and that NED is exercising due diligence in responding to the request.
