
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### i.e.,

(3) Review of records-Requesters who seek documents for commercial use shall be charged for the time NED spends reviewing records to determine whether such records are exempt from mandatory disclosure. These charges shall be assessed only for the initial review;the review undertaken the first time NED analyzes the applicability of a specific exemption to a particular record or portion of a record. Neither NED nor the Department of State will charge for review at the administrative appeal level for an exemption already applied. However, NED will charge for review of records or portions of records withheld in full under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply. The fee for review as that term is used in these regulations shall be $15.00 per hour;

(4) Duplication of records-(i) making photocopies-15&#xA2; per page; (ii) for copies prepared by computer, such as tapes or printouts, NED shall charge the actual cost, including operator time, of production of the tape or printout; (iii) for other methods of reproduction or duplication, NED shall charge the actual direct costs of producing the document(s);

(5) Other charges-(i) there shall be no fee for a signed statement of non-availability of a record; (ii) NED will not incur expenses arising out of sending records by special methods such as express mail;

(6) Restrictions on assessing fees-With the exception of requesters seeking documents for a commercial use, section (a)(4)(A)(iv) of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, requires NED to provide the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time without charge. NED shall not charge fees to any requester, including commercial use requesters, if the cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself. NED will not begin to assess fees until it has first provided the above-referenced free search and reproduction. The elements to be considered in determining the "cost of collecting a fee" are the administrative costs to NED of receiving and recording a requester's remittance and processing the fee for deposit in NED's account. For purposes of these restrictions on assessment of fees, the word "pages" refers to paper copies of a standard size, which will normally be 8x 11 or 11 x 14. Thus, for example, requesters shall not be entitled to 100 microfiche or 100 computer disks without charge.
