
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### Fees to be charged-categories of requesters.

(f)There are four categories of FOIA requesters: commercial use requesters; educational and non-commercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The fees to be charged each of these categories of requesters are as follows:

(1) Commercial use requesters-when NED receives a request for documents for commercial use, it shall assess charges that recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. Commercial use requesters are entitled to neither two hours of free search time nor 100 free pages of reproduction of documents. NED shall recover the cost of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;

(2) Educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters-NED shall provide documents to educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages of duplication. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must show that the request is being made as authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;

(3) Requesters who are representatives of the news media-NED shall provide documents to requesters who are representatives of the news media for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must meet the criteria in subsection (c)(10) above, and the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought;

(4) All other requesters-NED shall charge requesters who do not fit into any of the above categories those fees that recover the full reasonable direct costs of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.
