
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### Assessment and collection of fees.

(g)(1) NED shall assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. The fact that the fee has been received by NED, even if not processed, will suffice to stay the accrual of interest. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of title 31 of the United States Code and will accrue from the date of the billing.

(2) Charges for unsuccessful searches-If NED estimates that search charges are likely to exceed $25.00, it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees unless the requester has indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Such notice shall offer the requester the opportunity to confer with agency personnel with the object of reformulating the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost. Dispatch of such a notice of request shall suspend the running of the period for response by NED until a reply is received from the requester.

(3) Aggregating requests-Except for requests that are for a commercial use, NED shall not charge for the first two hours of search time or for the first 100 pages of reproduction. However, a requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When NED reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert are attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, NED shall aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. One element to be considered in determining whether a belief would be reasonable is the time period in which the requests have been made. Before aggregating requests from more than one requester, NED must have a concrete basis on which to conclude that the requesters are acting in concert and are acting specifically to avoid payment of fees. In no case shall NED aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from one requester.

(4) Advance payments-NED shall not require payment for fees before work has commenced or continued on a request unless:

(i) NED estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250.00. In this event, NED shall notify the requester of the likely cost and may require an advance payment of an amount up to the full amount of estimated charges; or

(ii) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged within 30 days of the date of billing.

(iii) When NED acts under paragraphs (g)(4)(i) or (ii) above, the administrative time limits prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA will begin only after NED has received fee payments described above.

(5) Form of payment-Remittances shall be in the form of a personal check or bank draft drawn on any bank in the United States, a postal money order, or cash. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of: National Endowment for Democracy. NED will assume no responsibility for cash lost in the mail.
