
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### Fee waiver or reduction.

(h)NED shall furnish documents without charge or at a charge reduced below the fees established by these regulations if disclosure of the information is in the public interest because the disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In making a determination under this subsection, NED shall consider these factors in the following order:

(1) Whether the subject of the request for documents concerns the operations or activities of the government. For purposes of determining whether this factor is met:

(i) Records generated by a non-government entity are less likely to respond to a request for documents concerning the operations or activities of the government;

(ii) Records that are sought for their intrinsic informational content apart from their informative value with respect to specific activities or operations of government are less likely to meet this factor.

(2) Whether the information requested is likely to contribute to an understanding of government operations or activities. For purposes of determining whether the request meets this factor:

(i) NED will consider the extent to which the information requested already exists in the public domain;

(ii) NED will consider the extent to which the value of the information relates to an understanding of government operations or activities as opposed to the extent to which the information relates to other subjects.

(3) Whether the information requested will contribute to public understanding of government operations or activities. For purposes of determining whether the request meets this factor:

(i) NED will consider whether the disclosure will contribute to a public understanding as opposed to a primarily personal understanding of the requester;

(ii) NED will consider the identity of the requester to determine whether such requester is in a position to contribute to public understanding through disclosure of the information. Requesters shall describe their qualifications to satisfy this consideration;

(iii) NED will consider the expertise of the requester and the extent to which the expertise will enable the requester to extract, synthesize and convey the information to the public. Requesters shall describe their qualifications to satisfy this consideration;

(4) Whether the contribution to public understanding will be significant. In determining whether this factor has been met:

(i) NED will consider whether the public's understanding of the subject matter in question is likely to be enhanced by the disclosure of information by a significant extent;

(ii) NED will compare the likely level of public understanding of the subject matter of the request before and after disclosure.

(5) After NED is satisfied that factors (h)(1) through (4) have been met, it will consider whether the requested disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
