
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 66 - AVAILABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 66.5 Availability of NED records.
###### commercial interest

(i) For purposes of this subsection,is one that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest as those terms are commonly understood. Under this subsection, a "commercial interest" shall not be an interest served by a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester. All requesters who seek a fee waiver under section (h) of these regulations must disclose any and all commercial interests that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. NED shall use this information, information in its possession, reasonable inferences drawn from the requester's identity, and the circumstances surrounding the request to determine whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure. If information that NED obtains from a source other than the requester or reasonable inferences or other circumstances are used in making a determination under this paragraph (h)(5), NED shall inform the requester of the information, inferences or circumstances that were used in its initial determination. The requester may, prior to filing an appeal of the initial determination with the President of NED or his designee under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provide further information to rebut such reasonable inferences, or to clarify the circumstances of the request to the person responsible for the initial determination. Such action by the requester must occur within 20 days of the initial determination by NED. Within 10 days of receipt of such further information, clarification, or rebuttal, NED shall respond to the additional information, reverse or affirm its original position and state the reasons for the reversal or affirmation. Receipt of an affirmation by the requester shall constitute an initial denial of a request for purposes of the appeal process described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(ii) NED shall consider the magnitude of the requester's commercial interest. In making a determination under this factor, NED shall consider the role that the disclosed information plays with respect to the requester's commercial interests and the extent to which the disclosed information serves the range of commercial interests of the requester.

(iii) NED shall weigh the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester against the public interest in disclosure in order to determine whether the disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. If the magnitude of the public interest in disclosure is greater than the magnitude of the requester's commercial interest, NED shall grant a full or partial fee waiver.

(6) In determining whether to grant a full or partial fee waiver, NED shall, to the extent possible, identify the portion of the information sought by the requester that satisfies the standard governing fee waivers set forth in FOIA, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(iii), and in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section, and grant a fee waiver with respect to those documents. Fees for reproduction of documents that do not satisfy these standards shall be assessed as provided in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section, a requester may appeal a determination of the fees to be charged or waived under these regulations as he or she would appeal an initial determination of documents to be disclosed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
