
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter G - Public Diplomacy and Exchanges
#### PART 67 - ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
##### ยง 67.4 Description of functions and procedures.
###### Financial and programmatic monitoring

(5)following the approval and negotiation of a grant, and ongoing and/or follow-up evaluation of programs prior to any subsequent funding of either a particular grantee or a specific program. Grantees will also be expected to monitor projects, to provide regular reports to NED on the progress of programs, and to inform NED promptly of any significant problems that could affect the successful implementation of the project. NED grantees will also conduct their own evaluations of programs.

(6) As a recipient of congressionally appropriated funds, NED has a special responsibility to:

(i) Operate openly,

(ii) Provide relevant information on programs and operations to the public, and

(iii) Ensure that funds are spent wisely, efficiently, and in accordance with all relevant regulations.

(c) Institutes representing business, labor, and the major political parties carry out programs which are central to NED's purposes. As a result of their unique relationship to NED, institute programs are an integral part of NED's priorities and the institutes themselves are "core" grantees. As such, the institutes, while subject to all the normal procedures governing NED's relationships with grantees, will be treated differently in the following respects:

(1) The institutes will have the mandate to carry out programs funded by NED in their respective sectors of business, labor and political parties.

(2) As an integral part of the process of budgeting and setting program priorities, the NED Board will target a certain amount of its annual resources for institute programs in their respective fields of activity.

(3) Unlike its practice for the majority of its grantees, NED will fund significant administrative costs for each of the core grantees.

(4) Institute staff will assume responsibility for program development and preparation of proposals for the Board in each field of activity for which it has a special mandate.
