
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 16 - FOREIGN SERVICE GRIEVANCE SYSTEM
##### ยง 16.7 Agency procedures.
###### Initial consideration.

(a)(1) Grievances shall be considered through the steps provided in this section before they are filed with the Grievance Board.

(2) During the pendency of agency procedures under this section, the grievant may request a suspension of the proposed action of the character of separation or termination of the grievant, disciplinary action against the grievant, or recovery from the grievant of alleged overpayment of salary, expenses or allowances, which is related to the grievance. The request must be in writing and addressed to the responsible official of the agencies, as designated in ยง 16.8(a)(2) stating the reasons for such suspension. If the request is related to separation or termination of the grievant, and the agency considers that the grievance is not frivolous and is integral to the proposed action, the agency shall suspend its proposed action until completion of agency procedures, and for a period thereafter if necessary, consistent with paragraph (a) of ยง 16.11, to permit the grievant to file a grievance with the Board, and to request interim relief under paragraph (c) of ยง 16.11. If a request is denied, the agency shall provide the grievant in writing the reason for denial. Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to preclude an employee from requesting the suspension of any proposed action.
