
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter J - Legal and Related Services
#### PART 92 - NOTARIAL AND RELATED SERVICES
##### Depositions and Letters Rogatory
###### ยง 92.55 Consular authority and responsibility for taking depositions.
####### Requests to take depositions or designations to execute commissions to take depositions.

(a)Any United States notarizing officer may be requested to take a deposition on notice, or designated to execute a commission to take depositions. A commission or notice should, if possible, identify the officer who is to take depositions by his official title only in the following manner: "Any notarizing officer of the United States of America at (name of locality)". The notarizing officer responsible for the performance of notarial acts at a post should act on a request to take a deposition on notice, or should execute the commission, when the documents are drawn in this manner, provided local law does not preclude such action. However, when the officer (or officers) is designated by name as well as by title, only the officer (or officers) so designated may take the depositions. In either instance, the officer must be a disinterested party. Rule 28(c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the district courts of the United States prohibits the taking of a deposition before a person who is a relative, employee, attorney or counsel of any of the parties, or who is a relative or employee of such attorney or counsel, or who is financially interested in the action.
