
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter J - Legal and Related Services
#### PART 92 - NOTARIAL AND RELATED SERVICES
##### Depositions and Letters Rogatory
###### § 92.65 Depositions to prove genuineness of foreign documents.
####### Execution and return of commission.

(c)(1) Commissions issued in criminal cases under the authority of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended, to take testimony in connection with foreign documents should be executed and returned by officers of the Foreign Service in accordance with section 1 of that act, as amended (sec. l, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3493, 3494), and in accordance with any special instructions which may accompany the commission. For details not covered by such section or by special instructions, officers of the Foreign Service should be guided by such instructions as may be issued by the Department of State in connection with the taking of depositions generally. (See §§ 92.55 to 92.64.)

(2) Section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3493) provides that every person whose testimony is taken should be cautioned and sworn to testify the whole truth and should be carefully examined. The testimony should be reduced to writing or typewriting by the consular officer, or by some person under his personal supervision, or by the witness himself in the presence of the consular officer, and by no other person. After it has been reduced to writing or typewriting, the testimony must be signed by the witness. Every foreign document with respect to which testimony is taken must be annexed to such testimony and must be signed by each witness who appears for the purpose of establishing the genuineness of such document.

(3) When counsel for all of the parties attend the examination of any witness whose testimony will be taken on written interrogatories, they may consent that oral interrogatories, in addition to those accompanying the commission, be put to the witness. The consular officer taking the testimony should require an interpreter to be present when his services are needed or are requested by any party or his attorney. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 835, 18 U.S.C. 3493.)

(4) Section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948 (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3494) provides that the consular officer, who executes any commission authorized under the same section, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492) and who is satisfied, upon all the testimony taken, that a foreign document is genuine, should certify such document to be genuine under the seal of his office. This certification must include a statement that the officer is not subject to disqualification under the provisions of section 1 of the act of June 25, 1948, as amended (sec. 1, 62 Stat. 834, sec. 53, 63 Stat. 96; 18 U.S.C. 3492). For purposes of assessment of fees, the issuance of this certificate shall be regarded as a part of the consular service of executing the commission, and no separate fee shall be charged for the certificate.

(5) The consular officer should then forward such foreign documents, together with the record of all testimony taken and the commission which has been executed, to the Department of State for transmission to the clerk of the court from which the commission issued. (Section 1, 62 Stat. 835; 18 U.S.C. 3494.) (See § 92.64 regarding the filing of depositions generally.)
