
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter J - Legal and Related Services
#### PART 93 - SERVICE ON FOREIGN STATE
##### ยง 93.1 Service through the diplomatic channel.

(a) The Director of the Office of Special Consular Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs, Department of State ("The Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service"), shall perform the duties of the Secretary of State under section 1608(a)(4) of title 28, United States Code.

(b) When the clerk of the court concerned sends documents under section 1608(a)(4), of title 28, United States Code, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall promptly ascertain if the documents include the required copies of the notice of suit and of the summons and complaint (or default judgment), and any required translations. If not, he shall promptly advise the clerk of the missing items.

(c) Upon receiving the required copies of documents and any required translations, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall promptly cause one copy of each such document and translation ("the documents") to be delivered-

(1) To the Embassy of the United States in the foreign state concerned, and the Embassy shall promptly deliver them to the foreign ministry or other appropriate authority of the foreign state, or

(2) If the foreign state so requests or if otherwise appropriate, to the embassy of the foreign state in the District of Columbia, or

(3) If paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are unavailable, through an existing diplomatic channel, such as to the embassy of another country authorized to represent the interests of the foreign state concerned in the United States.

(d) The documents, when delivered under paragraph (c) of this section, shall be accompanied by a diplomatic note of transmittal, requesting that the documents be forwarded to the appropriate authority of the foreign state or political subdivision upon which service is being made. The note shall state that, under United States law, questions of jurisdiction and of state immunity must be addressed to the court and not to the Department of State, and that it is advisable to consult with an attorney in the United States.

(e) If the documents are delivered under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Embassy of the United States shall promptly transmit by diplomatic pouch, to the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service, a certified copy of the diplomatic note of transmittal. If the documents are delivered under paragraph (c) (2) or (3) of this section, the Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall prepare a certified copy of the diplomatic note of transmittal. In each case, the certification shall state the date and place the documents were delivered. The Managing Director for Overseas Citizen Service shall then promptly send the certified copy to the clerk of the court concerned.
