
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 120 - PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
##### Subpart B - General Policies and Processes
###### § 120.12 Commodity jurisdiction determination requests.

(a) Upon electronic submission of a Commodity Jurisdiction Determination Form (Form DS-4076), the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) shall provide a determination of whether a particular article or service is covered by the U.S. Munitions List in part 121 of this subchapter. The determination, consistent with §§ 120.2, 120.3, and 120.4, entails consultation among the Departments of State, Defense, Commerce, and other U.S. Government agencies and industry in appropriate cases. State, Defense, and Commerce will resolve commodity jurisdiction determination disputes in accordance with established procedures. State shall notify Defense and Commerce, and other U.S. Government agencies as appropriate, of the initiation and conclusion of each case.

(b) A determination that an article or service meets the criteria of a defense article or defense service, or provides the equivalent performance capabilities of a defense article on the U.S. Munitions List, is made on a case-by-case basis, taking into account:

(1) The form and fit of the article;

(2) The function and performance capability of the article; and

(3) Other applicant-provided information, to include a history of the product's design, development, and use, as well as specifications and any other relevant data as described in brochures and other related documents.

(c) A determination that an article or service has a critical military or intelligence advantage such that it warrants control under Category XXI of § 121.1 of this subchapter is made, on a case-by-case basis, taking into account:

(1) The function and performance capability of the article; and

(2) The nature of controls imposed by other nations on such items (including the Wassenaar Arrangement and other multilateral controls).

(d) DDTC will provide a preliminary response within 10 working days of receipt of a complete request for commodity jurisdiction determination. If after 45 days DDTC has not provided a final commodity jurisdiction determination, the applicant may request in writing to the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy that this determination be given expedited processing.

(e) A person may appeal a commodity jurisdiction determination by submitting a written request for reconsideration to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls. The Deputy Assistant Secretary's determination of the appeal will be provided, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. If desired, an appeal of the Deputy Assistant Secretary's decision can then be made to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.

(f) Registration with DDTC as described in part 122 of this subchapter is not required prior to submission of a commodity jurisdiction determination request.
