
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 123 - LICENSES FOR THE EXPORT AND TEMPORARY IMPORT OF DEFENSE ARTICLES
##### § 123.16 Exemptions of general applicability.
###### see,see

(4) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the export without a license, of unclassified models or mock-ups of defense articles, provided that such models or mock-ups are inoperable and do not reveal any technical data in excess of that which is exempted from the licensing requirements of § 125.4(b) of this subchapter and do not contain components (§ 120.40(c) of this subchapter) covered by the U.S. Munitions List (§ 121.1 of this subchapter). Some models or mockups built to scale or constructed of original materials can reveal technical data. U.S. persons who avail themselves of this exemption must electronically submit a certification to U.S. Customs and Border Protection that these conditions are met, unless directed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to provide such a certification in another manner. This exemption does not imply that the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls will approve the export of any defense articles for which models or mocks-ups have been exported pursuant to this exemption.

(5) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary export without a license of unclassified defense articles to any public exhibition, trade show, air show or related event if that article has previously been licensed for a public exhibition, trade show, air show or related event and the license is still valid. U.S. persons who avail themselves of this exemption must electronically submit a certification to U.S. Customs and Border Protection that these conditions are met, unless directed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to provide such a certification in another manner.

(6) For exemptions for personal protective gear, refer to § 123.17.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) For exports to Canada refer to § 126.5 of this subchapter.

(9) Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall permit the temporary export without a license by a U.S. person of any unclassified component, part, tool or test equipment to a subsidiary, affiliate or facility owned or controlled by the U.S. person (see § 120.65 of this subchapter for definition of foreign ownership and foreign control) if the component, part, tool or test equipment is to be used for manufacture, assembly, testing, production, or modification provided:

(i) The U.S. person is registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and complies with all requirements set forth in part 122 of this subchapter;

(ii) No defense article exported under this exemption may be sold or transferred without the appropriate license or other approval from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.

(10) [Reserved]
