
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 124 - AGREEMENTS, OFF-SHORE PROCUREMENT, AND OTHER DEFENSE SERVICES
##### § 124.1 Manufacturing license agreements and technical assistance agreements.
###### Approval.

(a)The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained before the defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter may be furnished. In order to obtain such approval, the U.S. person must submit a proposed agreement to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Such agreements are generally characterized as manufacturing license agreements, technical assistance agreements, distribution agreements, or off-shore procurement agreements, and may not enter into force without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Once approved, the defense services described in the agreements may generally be provided without further licensing in accordance with §§ 124.3 and 125.4(b)(2) of this subchapter. The requirements of this section apply whether or not technical data is to be disclosed or used in the performance of the defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter (e.g., all the information relied upon by the U.S. person in performing the defense service is in the public domain or is otherwise exempt from licensing requirements of this subchapter pursuant to § 125.4 of this subchapter). This requirement also applies to the training of any foreign military forces, regular and irregular, in the use of defense articles. Technical assistance agreements must be submitted in such cases. In exceptional cases, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, upon written request, will consider approving the provision of defense services described in § 120.32 of this subchapter by granting a license under part 125 of this subchapter.
