
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 124 - AGREEMENTS, OFF-SHORE PROCUREMENT, AND OTHER DEFENSE SERVICES
##### ยง 124.12 Required information in letters of transmittal.

(a) An application for the approval of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement with a foreign person must be accompanied by an explanatory letter. The explanatory letter shall contain:

(1) A statement giving the applicant's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls registration number.

(2) A statement identifying the licensee and the scope of the agreement.

(3) A statement identifying the U.S. Government contract under which the equipment or technical data was generated, improved, or developed and supplied to the U.S. Government, and whether the equipment or technical data was derived from any bid or other proposal to the U.S. Government.

(4) A statement giving the military security classification of the equipment or technical data.

(5) A statement identifying any patent application which discloses any of the subject matter of the equipment or technical data covered by an invention secrecy order issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

(6) A statement of the actual or estimated value of the agreement, including the estimated value of all defense articles to be exported in furtherance of the agreement or amendments thereto. If the value is $500,000 or more, an additional statement must be made regarding the payment of political contributions, fees or commissions, pursuant to part 130 of this subchapter.

(7) A statement indicating whether any foreign military sales credits or loan guarantees are or will be involved in financing the agreement.

(8) The agreement must describe any classified information involved and identify, from Department of Defense form DD254, the address and telephone number of the U.S. Government office that classified the information.

(9) For agreements that may require the export of classified information, the Defense Security Service cognizant security offices that have responsibility for the facilities of the U.S. parties to the agreement shall be identified. The facility security clearance codes of the U.S. parties shall also be provided.

(b) The following statements must be made in the letter of transmittal:

(1) "If the agreement is approved by the Department of State, such approval will not be construed by (the applicant) as passing on the legality of the agreement from the standpoint of antitrust laws or other applicable statutes, nor will (the applicant) construe the Department's approval as constituting either approval or disapproval of any of the business terms or conditions between the parties to the agreement."

(2) "The (applicant) will not permit the proposed agreement to enter into force until it has been approved by the Department of State."

(3) "The (applicant) will furnish the Department of State with one copy of the signed agreement (or amendment) within 30 days from the date that the agreement is concluded and will inform the Department of its termination not less than 30 days prior to expiration and provide information on the continuation of any foreign rights or the flow of technical data to the foreign party. If a decision is made not to conclude the proposed agreement, the applicant will so inform the Department within 60 days."
