
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 124 - AGREEMENTS, OFF-SHORE PROCUREMENT, AND OTHER DEFENSE SERVICES
##### ยง 124.14 Exports to warehouses or distribution points outside the United States.
###### Required information.

(b)Proposed warehousing and distribution agreements (and amendments thereto) shall be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for approval. The following information must be included in all such agreements:

(1) A description of the defense articles involved including test and support equipment covered by the U.S. Munitions List. This shall include when applicable the military nomenclature, the Federal stock number, nameplate data, and any control numbers under which the defense articles were developed or procured by the U.S. Government. Only those defense articles specifically listed in the agreement will be eligible for export under the exemption in ยง 123.16(b)(1) of this subchapter.

(2) A detailed statement of the terms and conditions under which the defense articles will be exported and distributed;

(3) The duration of the proposed agreement;

(4) Specific identification of the country or countries that comprise the distribution territory. Distribution must be specifically limited to the governments of such countries or to private entities seeking to procure defense articles pursuant to a contract with a government within the distribution territory or to other eligible entities as specified by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Consequently, any deviation from this condition must be fully explained and justified. A nontransfer and use certificate (DSP-83) will be required to the same extent required in licensing agreements under ยง 124.9(b).
