
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 125 - LICENSES FOR THE EXPORT OF TECHNICAL DATA AND CLASSIFIED DEFENSE ARTICLES
##### § 125.1 Exports subject to this part.

(a) The controls of this part apply to the export of technical data and the export of classified defense articles. Information which is in the public domain (see § 120.34 of this subchapter and § 125.4(b)(13)) is not subject to the controls of this subchapter.

(b) A license for the export of technical data and the exemptions in § 125.4 may not be used for foreign production purposes or for technical assistance unless the approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls has been obtained. Such approval is generally provided only pursuant to the procedures specified in part 124 of this subchapter.

(c) Technical data authorized for export may not be reexported, transferred or diverted from the country of ultimate end-use or from the authorized foreign end-user (as designated in the license or approval for export) or disclosed to a national of another country without the prior written approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.

(d) The controls of this part apply to the exports referred to in paragraph (a) of this section regardless of whether the person who intends to export the technical data produces or manufactures defense articles if the technical data is determined by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to be subject to the controls of this subchapter.

(e) For the export of technical data related to articles in Category VI(e), Category XVI, and Category XX(b)(1) of § 121.1 of this subchapter, see § 120.5(c) of this subchapter.

(f) Unless limited by a condition set out in an agreement, the export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary import authorized by a license is for the item(s), end-use(s), and parties described in the agreement, license, and any letters of explanation. DDTC approves agreements and grants licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made in or submitted in connection with the agreement, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted.
