
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 125 - LICENSES FOR THE EXPORT OF TECHNICAL DATA AND CLASSIFIED DEFENSE ARTICLES
##### ยง 125.3 Exports of classified technical data and classified defense articles.

(a) A request for authority to export defense articles, including technical data, classified by a foreign government or pursuant to Executive Order 12356, successor orders, or other legal authority must be submitted to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for approval. The application must contain full details of the proposed transaction. It should also list the facility security clearance code of all U.S. parties on the license and include the Defense Security Service cognizant security office of the party responsible for packaging the commodity for shipment. A nontransfer and use certificate (Form DSP-83) executed by the applicant, foreign consignee, end-user and an authorized representative of the foreign government involved will be required.

(b) Classified technical data which is approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls either for export or reexport after a temporary import will be transferred or disclosed only in accordance with the requirements in the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (unless such requirements are in direct conflict with guidance provided by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, in which case the latter guidance must be followed). Any other requirements imposed by cognizant U.S. departments and agencies must also be satisfied.

(c) The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained for the export of technical data by a U.S. person to a foreign person in the U.S. or in a foreign country unless the proposed export is exempt under the provisions of this subchapter.

(d) All communications relating to a patent application covered by an invention secrecy order are to be addressed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (see 37 CFR 5.11).
