
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 126 - GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
##### ยง 126.14 Special comprehensive export authorizations for NATO, Australia, Japan, and Sweden.
###### Global project authorization.

(3)(i)With respect to NATO members, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may provide a comprehensive "Global Project Authorization" to registered U.S. exporters for exports of defense articles, technical data or defense services in support of government to government cooperative projects (covering research and development or production) with one of these countries undertaken pursuant to an agreement between the U.S. Government and the government of such country, or a memorandum of understanding/agreement between the Department of Defense and the country's Ministry of Defense.

(ii) A set of standard terms and conditions derived from and corresponding to the breadth of the activities and phases covered in such a cooperative MOU will provide the basis for this comprehensive authorization for all U.S. exporters (and foreign end users) identified by DoD as participating in such cooperative project. Such authorizations may cover a broad range of defined activities in support of such programs including multiple shipments of defense articles and technical data and performance of defense services for extended periods, and re-exports to approved end users.

(iii) Eligible end users will be limited to ministries of defense of MOU signatory countries and foreign companies serving as contractors of such countries.

(iv) Any requirement for non-transfer and use assurances from a foreign government may be deemed satisfied by the signature by such government of a cooperative agreement or by its ministry of defense of a cooperative MOU/MOA where the agreement or MOU contains assurances that are comparable to that required by a DSP-83 with respect to foreign governments and that clarifies that the government is undertaking responsibility for all its participating companies. The authorized non-government participants or end users (e.g., the participating government's contractors) will still be required to execute DSP-83s.
