
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 126 - GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
##### § 126.14 Special comprehensive export authorizations for NATO, Australia, Japan, and Sweden.
###### Provisions and requirements for comprehensive authorizations.

(b)Requests for the special comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section should be by letter addressed to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. With regard to a commercial major program or project authorization, or technical data supporting a teaming arrangement, merger, joint venture or acquisition, registered U.S. exporters may consult the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls about eligibility for and obtaining available comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section or pursuant to § 126.9(b) of this subchapter.

(1) Requests for consideration of all such authorizations should be formulated to correspond to one of the authorizations set out in paragraph (a) of this section, and should include:

(i) A description of the proposed program or project, including where appropriate a comprehensive description of all phases or stages; and

(ii) Its value; and

(iii) Types of exports needed in support of the program or project; and

(iv) Projected duration of same, within permissible limits; and

(v) Description of the exporter's plan for record keeping and auditing of all phases of the program or project; and

(vi) In the case of authorizations for exports in support of government to government cooperative projects, identification of the cooperative project.

(2) Amendments to the requested authorization may be requested in writing as appropriate, and should include a detailed description of the aspects of the activities being proposed for amendment.

(3) The comprehensive authorizations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section may be made valid for the duration of the major commercial program or project, or cooperative project, not to exceed 10 years.

(4) Included among the criteria required for such authorizations are those set out in part 124, e.g., §§ 124.7, 124.8 and 124.9, as well as §§ 125.4 (technical data exported in furtherance of an agreement) and 123.16 (hardware being included in an agreement). Provisions required will also take into account the congressional notification requirements in §§ 123.15 and 124.11 of the ITAR. Specifically, comprehensive congressional notifications corresponding to the comprehensive parameters for the major program or project or cooperative project should be possible, with additional notifications such as those required by law for changes in value or other significant modifications.

(5) All authorizations will be consistent with all other applicable requirements of the ITAR, including requirements for non-transfer and use assurances (see §§ 123.10 and 124.10), congressional notifications (e.g., §§ 123.15 and 124.11), and other documentation (e.g., §§ 123.9 and 126.13).

(6) Special auditing and reporting requirements will also be required for these authorizations. Exporters using special authorizations are required to establish an electronic system for keeping records of all defense articles, defense services and technical data exported and comply with all applicable requirements for submitting shipping or export information within the allotted time.
