
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 126 - GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
##### ยง 126.16 Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and Australia.
###### Transitions.

(i)(1) Any previous export of a defense article under a license or other approval of the U.S. Department of State remains subject to the conditions and limitations of the original license or authorization unless DDTC has approved in writing a transition to this section.

(2) If a U.S. exporter desires to transition from an existing license or other approval to the use of the provisions of this section, the following is required:

(i) The U.S. exporter must submit a written request to DDTC, which identifies the defense articles or defense services to be transitioned, the existing license(s) or other authorizations under which the defense articles or defense services were originally exported, and the Treaty-eligible end-use for which the defense articles or defense services will be used. Any license(s) filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection should remain on file until the exporter has received approval from DDTC to retire the license(s) and transition to this section. When this approval is conveyed to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by DDTC, the license(s) will be returned to DDTC by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accord with existing procedures for the return of expired licenses in ยง 123.22(c) of this subchapter.

(ii) Any license(s) not filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection must be returned to DDTC with a letter citing approval by DDTC to transition to this section as the reason for returning the license(s).

(3) If a member of the Australian Community desires to transition defense articles received under an existing license or other approval to the processes established under the Treaty, the Australian Community member must submit a written request to the Government of Australia. The Government of Australia will submit the request to DDTC for review and approval. The defense article or defense service shall remain subject to the conditions and limitations of the existing license or other approval until the Australian Community member has received via the Government of Australia the approval from DDTC.

(4) Authorized exporters identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section who have exported a defense article or defense service that has subsequently been placed on the list of exempted items in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter must review and adhere to the requirements in the relevantnotice announcing such removal. Once removed, the defense article or defense service will no longer be subject to this section, and such defense article or defense service previously exported shall remain on the U.S. Munitions List and be subject to the requirements of this subchapter unless the applicablenotice states otherwise. Subsequent reexport or retransfer must be made pursuant to ยง 123.9 of this subchapter.

(5) Any defense article or defense service transitioned from a license or other approval to treatment under this section must be marked in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
