
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 126 - GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
##### ยง 126.17 Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom.
###### Items eligible under this section.

(g)With the exception of items listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter, defense articles and defense services may be exported under this section subject to the following:

(1) An exporter authorized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section may market a defense article to members of the United Kingdom Community if that exporter has been licensed by DDTC to export (as defined by ยง 120.50 of this subchapter) the identical type of defense article to any foreign person and end-use of the article is for an end-use identified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) The export of any defense article specific to the existence of (e.g., reveals the existence of or details of) anti-tamper measures made at U.S. Government direction always requires prior written approval from DDTC.

(3) U.S.-origin classified defense articles or defense services may be exported only pursuant to a written request, directive, or contract from the U.S. Department of Defense that provides for the export of the classified defense article(s) or defense service(s).

(4) U.S.-origin defense articles specific to developmental systems that have not obtained written Milestone B approval from the U.S. Department of Defense milestone approval authority are not eligible for export unless such export is pursuant to a written solicitation or contract issued or awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense for an end-use identified pursuant to paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (4) of this section.

(5) Defense articles excluded by paragraph (g) of this section or Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter (e.g., USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar excluded by Note 2) that are embedded in a larger system that is eligible to ship under this section (e.g., a ship, an aircraft) must separately comply with any restrictions placed on that embedded defense article under this subchapter. The exporter must obtain a license or other authorization from DDTC for the export of such embedded defense articles (for example, USML Category XI (a)(3) electronically scanned array radar systems that are exempt from this section that are incorporated in an aircraft that is eligible to ship under this section continue to require separate authorization from DDTC for their export, transfer, reexport, or retransfer).

(6) No liability shall be incurred by or attributed to the U.S. Government in connection with any possible infringement of privately owned patent or proprietary rights, either domestic or foreign, by reason of an export conducted pursuant to this section.

(7) Sales by exporters made through the U.S. Government shall not include either charges for patent rights in which the U.S. Government holds a royalty-free license, or charges for information which the U.S. Government has a right to use and disclose to others, which is in the public domain, or which the U.S. Government has acquired or is entitled to acquire without restrictions upon its use and disclosure to others.

(8) Defense articles on the European Union Dual Use List (as described in Annex 1 to EC Council Regulation No. 428/2009) are not eligible for export under the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom. These articles have been identified and included in Supplement No.1 to part 126.
