
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 126 - GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS
##### ยง 126.17 Exemption pursuant to the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom.
###### see

(3) If a member of the United Kingdom Community desires to transition defense articles received under an existing license or other approval to the processes established under the Treaty, the United Kingdom Community member must submit a written request to DDTC, either directly or through the original U.S. exporter, which identifies the defense articles or defense services to be transitioned, the existing license(s) or other authorizations under which the defense articles or defense services were received, and the Treaty-eligible end-use (paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section regarding authorized end-uses) for which the defense articles or defense services will be used. The defense article or defense service shall remain subject to the conditions and limitations of the existing license or other approval until the United Kingdom Community member has received approval from DDTC.

(4) Authorized exporters identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section who have exported a defense article or defense service that has subsequently been placed on the list of exempted items in Supplement No. 1 to part 126 of this subchapter must review and adhere to the requirements in the relevantnotice announcing such removal. Once removed, the defense article or defense service will no longer be subject to this section, and such defense article or defense service previously exported shall remain on the U.S. Munitions List and be subject to the requirements of this subchapter unless the applicablenotice states otherwise. Subsequent reexport or retransfer must be made pursuant to ยง 123.9 of this subchapter.

(5) Any defense article or defense service transitioned from a license or other approval to treatment under this section must be marked in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
