
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter M - International Traffic in Arms Regulations
#### PART 130 - POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS, FEES AND COMMISSIONS
##### § 130.9 Obligation to furnish information to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.

(a)(1) Each applicant must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as to whether the applicant or its vendors have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, in respect of any sale for which a license or approval is requested:

(i) Political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more, or

(ii) Fees or commissions in an aggregate amount of $100,000 or more. If so, applicant must furnish to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls the information specified in § 130.10. The furnishing of such information or an explanation satisfactory to the Director of the Office of Defense Trade Controls Licensing as to why all the information cannot be furnished at that time is a condition precedent to the granting of the relevant license or approval.

(2) The requirements of this paragraph do not apply in the case of an application with respect to a sale for which all the information specified in § 130.10 which is required by this section to be reported shall already have been furnished.

(b) Each supplier must inform the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls as to whether the supplier or its vendors have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, in respect of any sale:

(1) Political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more, or

(2) Fees or commissions in an aggregate amount of $100,000 or more. If so, the supplier must furnish to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls the information specified in § 130.10. The information required to be furnished pursuant to this paragraph must be so furnished no later than 30 days after the contract award to such supplier, or such earlier date as may be specified by the Department of Defense. For purposes of this paragraph, a contract award includes a purchase order, exercise of an option, or other procurement action requiring a supplier to furnish defense articles or defense services to the Department of Defense for the purposes of § 22 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2762).

(c) In determining whether an applicant or its vendors, or a supplier or its vendors, as the case may be, have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions in an aggregate amount of $5,000 or more in respect of any sale so as to require a report under this section, there must be included in the computation of such aggregate amount any political contributions in respect of the sale which are paid by or on behalf of, or at the direction of, any person to whom the applicant, supplier or vendor has paid, or offered or agreed to pay, a fee or commission in respect of the sale. Any such political contributions are deemed for purposes of this part to be political contributions by the applicant, supplier or vendor who paid or offered or agreed to pay the fee or commission.

(d) Any applicant or supplier which has informed the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under this section that neither it nor its vendors have paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions or fees or commissions in an aggregate amount requiring the information specified in § 130.10 to be furnished, must subsequently furnish such information within 30 days after learning that it or its vendors had paid, or offered or agreed to pay, political contributions or fees or commissions in respect of a sale in an aggregate amount which, if known to applicant or supplier at the time of its previous communication with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, would have required the furnishing of information under § 130.10 at that time. Any report furnished under this paragraph must, in addition to the information specified in § 130.10, include a detailed statement of the reasons why applicant or supplier did not furnish the information at the time specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.
