
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.5-3 Residence of spouse during service at unhealthful post.
###### does not,does

(a) The calculation of the pro rata share of benefits for a former spouse, and the determination of whether a person qualifies as a "former spouse" depends on the length of the marriage. The latter, under the definition in the Act and when the principal has received extra service credit for an assignment to an unhealthful post, depends upon whether a spouse has resided with the principal at the unhealthful post. In order to determine residency for this purpose, whenever a married participant is assigned to an unhealthful post for which he/shereceive post differential andreceive or request extra service credit, the participant shall report on Form OF-140, Election to Receive Extra Service Credit Towards Retirement, whether his/her spouse is or is not residing at the post. Although a chief of mission is not required to submit Form OF-140 in order to receive extra credit for service at an unhealthful post, he/she must nevertheless submit this form if the chief of mission has a spouse that does not accompany him/her at post for the entire assignment. Both the participant and spouse shall sign the completed form. If there is a change in residence of the spouse during the assignment, a new joint Form OF-140 shall be filed to report the change.

(b) Whenever a participant retires or becomes divorced, or whenever a former participant becomes divorced who has extra service credit for assignment at unhealthful posts completed prior to the issuance of this regulation who was married during at least a portion of the assignment, the participant or former participant shall submit a statement to PER/ER/RET reporting on whether his/her spouse resided at the unhealthful post and the dates of such residence. The statement shall be signed by the principal and his/her spouse or former spouse whenever possible.

(c) In the event of a disagreement between a principal and his/her spouse or former spouse concerning residency at an unhealthful post, or the submission of a report or statement by a principal showing a period of nonresidence at a post by a spouse which is not signed by the spouse, the determination of residence will be made by PER/ER/RET and based on records in the Department of payments for travel and allowances plus any other evidence that can be adduced. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, the assumption will be made that the spouse resided at the post.
