
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter N - Miscellaneous
#### PART 136 - PERSONAL PROPERTY DISPOSITION AT POSTS ABROAD
##### ยง 136.4 Restrictions on dispositions of personal property.

(a) An employee or family member shall not sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country except with the prior written approval of the chief of mission or designee, except where the category of dispositions has been authorized to be undertaken without prior written approval in policies, rules or procedures issued by the chief of mission (cf. ยง 136.5(b)(1)).

(b) An employee or family member shall not retain any profit from the sale, assignment or other disposition within a foreign country of personal property that was imported into or purchased in that foreign country and that, by virtue of the official status of the employee, was exempt from import restrictions, customs duties, or taxes which would otherwise apply, when such sale, assignment or other disposition is made to persons not entitled to exemptions from import restrictions, duties, or taxes. An employee or family member shall not profit from an indirect disposition to persons not entitled to such exemptions, such as sale through a third country diplomat acting as a middleman, where the employee or family member knows or should know that the property is being acquired by the third party for resale to persons not entitled to exemptions, except that this restriction shall not apply to sales of personal property to official agencies of the foreign country in accordance with the laws or regulations of that country.

(c) Profits obtained from dispositions of personal property by an employee or family member that cannot be retained under paragraph (b) of this section including any interest earned by the employee or family member on such profits, shall be disposed of within 90 days of receipt by contribution or gift as defined in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code or by other similar contribution or gift to a bona fide charitable foreign entity as designated by the chief of mission pursuant to ยง 136.5(b)(11) of this part.

(d) Except as authorized in advance by the chief of mission on a case-by-case basis, no employee or family member shall sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country that was not acquired for bona fide personal use. There shall be a presumption that property that is new, unused or held by the employer or family member in unusual or commercial quantities was not acquired for bona fide personal use. For purposes of this subsection, there is no exemption for items of minimal value ยง 136.3(h)).

(e) No employee or family member shall import, sell, assign or otherwise dispose of personal property within a foreign country in a manner that violates the law or regulations of that country or governing international law.

(f) Violations of the restrictions or requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section shall be grounds for disciplinary actions against the employee in accordance with the employing agency's procedures and regulations. Employees shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with these regulations by family members.

(g) For purposes of computing profits on personal property dispositions subject to these regulations, where acquisition and disposition of the property were transacted in different currencies, proceeds received and costs incurred in a foreign currency shall be valued in United States dollars at the time of receipt or payment at the rate of exchange that was in effect for reverse accommodation exchanges at U.S. missions at the time of such receipt or payment. Where property was acquired and sold in the same currency, no conversion is required.
