
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.6-5 Preliminary review.

(a) Upon receipt of an application for payment under ยง 19.6-3, PER/ER/RET will determine whether-

(1) The application is complete;

(2) The applicant is an eligible beneficiary under this chapter; and

(3) The court order is a qualifying order. If the application is completed, the beneficiary is eligible and the court order appears on its face to be a qualifying order, PER/ER/RET will provide the notification required by ยง 19.6-6, otherwise, it will notify the applicant of any deficiency or requirement for additional information, and if the order is determined to be non-qualifying, the basis for such determination.

(b) Upon receipt of a certified copy of a final decree of divorce, PER/ER/RET will determine whether-

(1) It is a valid decree. Any decree recognized as valid by the parties will be considered valid for this purpose. In addition, any non-recognized decree will be considered valid for this purpose unless:

(i)(A) Neither party was domiciled within the court's jurisdiction, and

(B) The party denying recognition did not participate in the proceedings, or

(ii) The party denying recognition was not afforded notice of the proceedings (actual or constructive);

(2) A related court order has been submitted by either party; and

(3) A pro rata share payment is or may become due the former spouse. If a divorce decree is deemed valid under this paragraph, a pro rata share payment is due a former spouse unless PER/ER/RET is in receipt of a court order which it has deemed qualified under paragraph (a) of this section, or a valid spousal agrement providing otherwise. If it determines that a pro rata share payment is due, it will provide the notification required by ยง 19.6-6, otherwise, unless action is being taken pursuant to a related court order, it will notify both parties to the divorce the reason a pro rata share payment is not payable.
