
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter N - Miscellaneous
#### PART 140 - PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO DRUG TRAFFICKERS
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 140.6 Foreign government entities.
####### Determination Procedures.

(a)(1) The Country Narcotics Coordinator shall be responsible for establishing a system for reviewing available information regarding narcotics offense convictions and drug trafficking of proposed assistance recipients under this section and, except under the circumstances described in ยง 140.6(a)(6), determining whether a proposed recipient is to be denied such assistance or other measures are to be taken as a result of the application of FAA Section 487.

(2) Prior to providing covered assistance to or through a proposed recipient, the agency providing the assistance shall provide the Country Narcotics Coordinator in the country in which the proposed recipient is located or, as appropriate, where assistance is to be provided, the information specified in ยง 140.6(a)(3) in order that the Country Narcotics Coordinator may carry out his or her responsibilities under this part.

(3) In each case, the agency proposing the assistance shall provide to the Country Narcotics Coordinator the name of each key individual within the recipient entity who may be expected to control or benefit from assistance as well as other relevant identifying information (e.g., address, date of birth) that is readily available. If a question arises concerning who should be included within the group of key individuals of an entity, the agency providing the assistance shall consult with the Country Narcotics Coordinator, and the decision shall be made by the Country Narcotics Coordinator. If the agency proposing the assistance disagrees with the Country Narcotics Coordinator's decision regarding who should be included within the group of key individuals, the agency may request that the decision be reviewed by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs in consultation with other appropriate bureaus and agencies. Any such review undertaken by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs shall be completed expeditiously.

(4) Within fourteen calendar days after receiving the name of a proposed recipient and other relevant information, the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall determine whether any available information may warrant withholding assistance or taking other measures under this part, based on the criteria set forth in ยง 140.6(b). If, during that period, the Country Narcotics Coordinator determines that available information does not so indicate, he or she shall notify the proposing agency that the assistance may be provided to the proposed recipient.

(5) If, during the initial fourteen-day period, the Country Narcotics Coordinator determines that information exists that may warrant withholding assistance or taking other measures under this part, then the Country Narcotics Coordinator shall have another fourteen calendar days to make a final determination whether the assistance shall be provided or withheld or such other measures taken.

(6) A decision to withhold assistance or to take other measures based on information or allegations that a key individual who is a senior government official of the host nation has been convicted of a narcotics offense or has been engaged in drug trafficking shall be made by the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, or by a higher ranking official of the Department of State, in consultation with other appropriate bureaus and agencies. For the purpose of this part, "senior government official" includes host nation officials at or above the vice minister level, heads of host nation law enforcement agencies, and general or flag officers of the host nation armed forces.
