
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter O - Civil Rights
#### PART 141 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
##### ยง 141.4 Assurances required.
###### General.

(a)(1) Every application for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies, as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, shall contain or be accompanied by an assurance that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. The assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended pursuant to the application.

(2) In any case where the Federal assistance is to provide, or is in the form of personal property, or real property or structures or any interest therein, or such property is acquired as a result of and in connection with such assistance, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in case of subsequent transfers, the transferees, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal assistance was, or is extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services and benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. Any assurance relating to property provided under or acquired as a result of or in connection with such assistance shall as appropriate require any instrument effecting or recording transfer, title or other evidence of ownership or right to possession, to include a covenant or condition assuring nondiscrimination for the period of obligation of the recipient or any transferee, which may contain a right to be reserved to the Department to revert title or right to possession. Where no transfer of property is involved, but property is improved or any interest of the recipient or transferee therein is increased as a result of Federal financial assistance, the recipient or transferee shall agree to include such covenant or condition in any subsequent transfer of such property. Failure to comply with any such conditions or requirements contained in such assurances shall render the recipient and the transferees, where appropriate, presumptively in noncompliance.

(3) The responsible Departmental official shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances, and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants. Any such assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement.
