
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter O - Civil Rights
#### PART 141 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
##### ยง 141.9 Decisions and notices.
###### Post-termination proceedings.

(g)(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this regulation and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this regulation.

(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the responsible Departmental official to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information establishing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the responsible Departmental official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he shall restore such eligibility, but such determination shall be in writing and shall be supported by evidence and findings of fact which shall be retained by the Department.

(3) If the responsible Departmental official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible Departmental official. The burden of substantiating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be on the applicant or recipient. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
