
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter O - Civil Rights
#### PART 142 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 142.8 Notice.

(a) A recipient shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 of the Act or this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The notification shall also include an identification of the responsible employee designated pursuant to ยง 142.7(a). A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this part. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include but are not limited to the posting of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publications, distribution of memoranda or other written communications; and with persons with impaired vision and hearing, through appropriate modes including braille, enlarged type, sign language, and telecommunication devices for the deaf.

(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information that it makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of the paragraph either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.
