
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - PROTECTION OF FOREIGN DIGNITARIES AND OTHER OFFICIAL PERSONNEL
##### ยง 2.1 Designation of personnel to carry firearms and exercise appropriate power of arrest.

(a) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security is authorized to designate certain employees of the Department of State and the Foreign Service, as well as employees of other departments and agencies detailed to and under the supervision and control of the Department of State, as Security Officers, as follows.

(1) Persons so designated shall be authorized to carry firearms when engaged in the performance of the duties prescribed in section (1) of the act of June 28, 1955, 69 Stat. 188, as amended. No person shall be so designated unless he has either qualified in the use of firearms in accordance with standards established by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security, or in accordance with standards established by the department or agency from which he is detailed.

(2) Persons so designated shall also be authorized, when engaged in the performance of duties prescribed in section (1) of the act of June 28, 1955, 69 Stat. 188, as amended, to arrest without warrant and deliver into custody any person violating the provisions of section 111 or 112 of title 18, United States Code, in their presence or if they have reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing such felony.

(b) When the Under Secretary of State for Management determines that it is necessary, persons designated under paragraph (a) of this section shall be authorized to provide protection to an individual who has been designated by the President to serve as Secretary of State, prior to his appointment, or to a departing Secretary of State. In providing such protection, they are authorized to exercise the authorities described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of section. Such protection shall be for the period or periods determined necessary by the Under Secretary of State for Management, except that in the case of a departing Secretary of State, the period of protection under this paragraph shall in no event exceed 30 calendar days from the date of termination of that individual's incumbency as Secretary of State.

(c) When the Under Secretary of State for Management determines that it is necessary, persons designated under paragraph (a) of this section shall be authorized to provide protection to a departing United States Representative to the United Nations. In providing such protection, they are authorized to exercise the authorities described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. Such protection shall be for the period or periods determined necessary by the Under Secretary of State for Management, except that the period of protection under this paragraph shall in no event exceed 30 calendar days from the date of termination of that individual's incumbency as United States Representative to the United Nations.
