
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.10-5 Reduced annuity with additional survivor annuity to spouse or former spouse.
###### Limitation on amount.

(b)Neither the total amount of additional survivor annuity or annuities under this section provided by any participant or former participant nor any combination of regular or additional survivor annuities for any one surviving spouse or former spouse of a principal may exceed 55 percent of the principal's full annuity counting any supplemental annuity or recomputation of annuity because of recall service. An additional survivor annuity provided by any principal shall be further limited to the amount that can be provided by a monthly payment which is not greater than the principal's net annuity described in ยง 19.6-2(b). The amount of any additional survivor annuity provided by a spousal agreement effective prior to the principal's retirement, shall be reduced as necessary by PER/ER/RET after the principal's retirement to comply with this limitation. Any amount paid by a participant for the portion of additional survivor annuity cancelled pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as an additional lump sum payment under paragraph (e) of this section and used to increase the amount of the additional annuity. A participant who separates from the Service without entitlement to any annuity is not entitled to provide an additional survivor annuity. Payments in such a case would be discontinued as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
