
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.10-5 Reduced annuity with additional survivor annuity to spouse or former spouse.
###### Payment for additional survivor annuity.,for

(e)(1) Paymentan additional survivor annuity will commence on the first of the month following the effective date of a spousal agreement provising the additional survivor annuity. The effective date will be the date of acceptance of the spousal agreement by PER/ER-RET (upon a finding that the agreement conforms to the law and regulations) or such later date as may be specified in the agreement. No payment will be made to a beneficiary under the agreement if the principal dies before its effective date. Accordingly, in order to give protection to a beneficiary during active service, the agreement must be made effective, and payment commence, during active service. Payment will be made by a participant or annuitant by deduction from salary or annuity. Payment will be made by a former participant while awaiting commencement of a deferred annuity by direct payment to the Department, Office of Financial Operations (M/COMP/FO). Payments not received by the due date may, at the option of M/COMP/FO and with notice to the principal and the beneficiary be collected from the principal's lump-sum account. Amounts so collected must be repaid by the principal with interest compounded at 10 percent annually to prevent exhaustion of the lump-sum account. If the lump-sum account does become exhausted, any rights to the lump-sum payment under ยง 19.13 and survivorship rights under this paragraph will expire on that date. If the principal dies with an amount owing, it shall be collected by set off from the survivor annuity or lump-sum account.

(2) Monthly payments may be reduced or eliminated by direct payment to M/COMP/FO by any participant or former participant under terms mutually agreed upon by the participant and PER/ER/RET. Minimum monthly payments will be based upon actuarial tables prescribed from time to time by the Director General of the Foreign Service (M/DGP) with the advice of the Secretary of Treasury. Such tables will be calculated so that the present value of all payments equal the present value of the survivor annuity. If new tables are prescribed, they would be applicable to additional survivor annuities provided by spousal agreements that become effective on or after the effective date of the new tables. Additional survivor annuities will be increased by regular cost-of-living adjustments from their commencing dates only when so specified at the option of the participant or former participant in a spousal agreement. Monthly payments will be higher if cost-of-living adjustments are provided.

(3) In the event of the disqualification of a beneficiary for an additional survivor annuity because of death, remarriage prior to age 60 or divorce from the principal and failure to meet the definition of "former spouse," or in the event of an authorized reduction or cancellation of an election for an additional survivor annuity, the monthly payment for such discontinued or reduced additional survivor annuity will be discontinued or reduced, as appropriate, effective at the beginning of the first month following termination or reduction of the benefit. Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section, any amount paid for such discontinued or reduced benefit by a participant or former participant in excess of the minimum monthly payments described above shall be refunded to the participant or former participant with interest calculated at the annual rate used in the last evaluation of the System or at such higher rate as may be authorized by M/COMP/FO as will not cause a loss to the Fund. The following table illustrates the minimum monthly payments schedule in effect February 15, 1981.

(4) Reduction from annuity to a principal to pay for an additional survivor annuity will be in the nature of an allotment and will not affect computations of cost-of-living adjustments to the principal.
