
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### § 19.10-6 Benefits for recall service.
###### Annuity of recalled participant.

(a)Any participant who is recalled to the Service under section 308 of the Act, shall, while serving, be entitled in lieu of annuity to the full salary of the class in which serving. During such service, the recalled annuitant shall make contributions to the Fund under section 805(a) of the Act. If a share of the annuity is being paid as a pension to a former spouse under § 19.9, that share shall be deducted from the salary of the recalled annuitant during the period of the recall service. Upon reversion of the annuitant to retired status, any pension payable to a former spouse that was being deducted from the salary of the principal shall again be deducted from the annuity of the principal which shall be determined as follows:

(1) If the recall service lasts less than one year, a refund of retirement contributions made during the recall period will be refunded under § 19.13 and the former annuity will be resumed at the previous rate adjusted by any cost-of-living increases that became effective during recall service.

(2) If the recall service lasts between one and five years, the annuitant will be entitled to elect benefits under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or receive both the former annuity adjusted by cost-of-living increases and a supplemental annuity computed under § 19.10 on the basis of service credit and average salary earned during the recall period, irrespective of the number of years of service credit previously earned.

(3) If the recall service lasts five years or more, the annuitant will be entitled to recomputation of the annuity as if there had been no previous retirement, or elect benefits under paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section.

(4) An annuitant may receive credit in any computation under paragraph (a) (2) or (3) of this section for any Federal service performed subsequent to the separation upon which the original annuity was computed provided a special contribution is made for such service under section 805 of the Act.

(5) An annuitant entitled to a supplemental annuity under paragraph (a)(3) of this section or a recomputated annuity under paragraph (a)(4) of this section is obligated, in the absence of a court order or spousal agreement to the contrary, to have those annuities reduced to provide the benefits described in § 19.8 to any spouse or former spouse to whom married during any portion of the recall service. An annuitant must accept a reduction of 10 percent of his/her supplemental annuity in order to provide a supplemental survivor annuity to a spouse or former spouse. The maximum supplemental survivor annuity equals 55 percent of the supplemental annuity. If, upon reversion to retired status, an annuitant has a former spouse entitled to a pro rata share or some other share of the supplemental survivor annuity, but no spouse, the appropriate share of the supplemental annuity shall be reduced by 10 percent to provide such former spouse a share of the maximum supplemental survivor annuity.
