
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### § 19.10-6 Benefits for recall service.
###### Survivor benefit for death during recall service.

(b)(1) If an annuitant entitled to a reduced annuity under § 19.10-2 dies in service after being recalled and is survived by a spouse or former spouse entitled to a survivor annuity based on the service of such annuitant, such survivor annuity shall be computed as if the recall service had otherwise terminated on the day of death and the annuity of the deceased had been resumed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If such death occurs after the annuitant had completed sufficient recall service to attain eligibility for a supplemental annuity, a surviving spouse or surviving former spouse who was married to the participant at any time during a period of recall service shall be entitled to elect, in addition to any other benefits and in lieu of a refund of retirement contributions made during the recall service, a supplemental survivor annuity computed and paid under § 19.10-6a(5) as if the recall service had otherwise terminated. If the annuitant had completed sufficient recall service to attain eligibility to have his/her annuity determined anew, a surviving spouse or such a surviving former spouse may elect, in lieu of any other survivor benefit under § 19.11, to have the rights of the annuitant redetermined and to receive a survivor annuity computed under § 19.11-2 or § 19.11-3 on the basis of the total service of the annuitant. In the event such an annuitant is survived both by a spouse and such a former spouse, the former spouse will be entitled to a pro rata share of any refund or supplemental survivor benefit under this section computed on the basis of total service during the recall period and months of marriage during such period. If the surviving spouse and surviving former spouse elect different benefits under this paragraph, the former spouse will receive the pro rata share of the benefit he/she elects and the spouse will receive the reciprocal share of the benefit he/she elects.

(2) In the event an annuitant dies during recall service and is survived by a former spouse to whom not married during any period of the recall service, such former spouse will not be entitled to any benefits based on the recall service.
