
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.11-2 Regular survivor annuity for a former spouse.
###### Death or remarriage of former spouse and transfer of survivor benefit to a spouse.

(c)Remarriage below age 60 or death of a former spouse while a principal is alive will disqualify the former spouse for benefits under this section. In the event of such a remarriage or death of a former spouse, the portion of a principal's survivor annuity committed to that person will become available for transfer to any spouse. If such a remarriage or death of the former spouse occurs after the principal's annuity commences, any reduction in the principal's annuity for that former spouse will be discontinued effective at the beginning of the first month following the remarriage or death unless the annuitant elects to provide or to increase a survivor benefit for a spouse. Such an election may be made within one year after the annuitant receives notice of the remarriage or death of his/her former spouse. The Department (PER/ER/RET) and the annuitant shall each notify the other promptly whenever either receives independent notice of such a remarriage or death. If an election to transfer survivor benefits to a spouse is not made by the annuitant, his/her annuity will be recomputed and paid as if there had been no reduction for the discontinued survivor benefit. If an annuity is so recomputed and an election is subsequently made to designate as beneficiary a spouse to whom married for at least one year at the time the election is made, the principal's annuity shall be restored retroactively to its former, lower rate and then adjusted by cost-of-living increases that have occured since the date of the first recomputation. If an election is made for a spouse when the marriage has not yet lasted a year, the procedures in ยง 19.10-4 shall be followed.
