
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### ยง 19.11-2 Regular survivor annuity for a former spouse.
###### Special rules for election of survivor annuity for a person who is a former spouse on February 15, 1981.

(e)(1) Any participant, or former participant eligible for a deferred annuity which has not yet commenced, who, on February 15, 1981 has a former spouse, may at any time prior to commencement of annuity, elect, with the consent of any spouse to whom married at the time of the election, to receive a reduced annuity and provide a regular survivor annuity for such former spouse. Such survivor annuity shall be limited by ยง 19.10-2(b). An election under this paragraph for a former spouse will reduce the amount of any regular survivor annuity that may subsequently be provided for any spouse or other former spouse.

(2) Any former participant in receipt of an annuity who has a former spouse on February 15, 1981 and who has not committed his/her entire annuity as a base for a regular survivor annuity for a spouse or any other former spouse, may, prior to December 31, 1982, designate any portion of the uncommitted base as the base for a regular survivor annuity for such former spouse.

(3) The annuity of a former participant making an election under this paragraph shall be reduced under ยง 19.10-2(a) effective February 15, 1981, or from its commencing date if later.

(4) An election under this paragraph shall be made by filing a spousal agreement with PER/ER/RET under ยง 19.7. A spousal agreement to provide a regular survivor annuity under this paragraph for a former spouse may be revoked or amended after its acceptance by PER/ER/RET as in accordance with the Act and these regulations, only by agreement of the parties up to the last day allowed by this paragraph for filing such an agreement. Thereafter, it is irrevocable. If a participant dies in service after having filed a valid election under this section, a survivor annuity will be paid to an eligible former suriving spouse in accordance with the terms of the election.
