
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 19 - BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES AND FORMER SPOUSES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
##### § 19.11-5 Commencement, termination and adjustment of annuities.

(a) An annuity payable from the Fund to a surviving spouse or former spouse begins on the day after the participant or annuitant dies and stops on the last day of the month before the survivor's (1) marriage before age 60, or (2) death. If a survivor annuity is terminated because of remarriage, the annuity is restored at the same rate effective on the date such remarriage is terminated, provided any lump-sum paid upon termination of the annuity is returned to the Fund. The termination of a surviving spouse annuity due to remarriage does not apply to a survivor annuitant who is a surviving spouse of a participant who died in service or retired before October 1, 1976, unless elected following a marriage after retirement under circumstances described in § 19.10-3 or § 19.10-4.

(b) A surviving spouse or former spouse shall not become entitled to a survivor annuity or to the restoration of a survivor annuity payable from the Fund unless the survivor elects to receive it instead of any other survivor annuity to which entitled under this or any other retirement system for Government employees. (For this purpose, neither the Social Security system nor the military retirement system is considered a retirement system for Government employees.) This restriction does not apply to a survivor annuitant who is a surviving spouse of a participant who died in service or retired before October 1, 1976, unless the survivor annuity was elected under circumstances described in § 19.10-3 or § 19.10-4.

(c) A child's annuity begins on the day after the participant dies, or if a child is not then qualified, on the first day of the month in which the child becomes eligible. A child's annuity shall terminate on the last day of the month which precedes the month in which eligibility ceases.

(d) Regular and supplemental survivor annuities to a spouse or former spouse of an annuitant described in §§ 19.11-2, 19.11-3 and 19.10-6(b) are increased from their effective date by the cumulative percentage of cost-of-living increases the annuitant was receiving under section 826 of the Act at death. All annuities payable to survivors on the date a cost-of-living adjustment becomes effective are increased by that percentage except (1) the first increase to a surviving spouse of a participant who dies in service shall be pro rated and (2) additional survivor annuities under § 19.10-5 when the spousal agreement authorizing the annuity makes no provision for cost-of-living increases.

(e) The annuity of survivors becomes effective as specified in this section but is not paid until the survivor submits Form JF-38, Application for Death Benefits, supported by such proof as may be required, for example, death, marriage, and/or divorce certificates. In the event that such is not submitted during an otherwise eligible beneficiary's lifetime, no annuity is due or payable to the beneficiary's estate.
