
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter Q - Environmental Protection
#### PART 161 - REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)
##### Subpart C - Environmental Review Procedures
###### § 161.9 Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
####### Review of and comment on draft EIS.

(e)For external review, the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall transmit five copies of the revised draft statement to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Office of Federal Activities. EPA will publish a notice of the statement's availability the following week in theUpon transmission of the draft statement to EPA, the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall also seek the views of appropriate agencies and individuals in accordance with Part 1503 and §§ 1506.6 and 1506.9 of the CEQ Regulations. It shall specify that replies are required at a stated date not earlier than 45 days from the date of NEPA publication of the draft statement availability. Any views submitted during the comment period shall be provided to the responsible action officer in the Department for consideration in preparing the final statement. To the fullest extent possible, requirements for review and consultation with other agencies on environmental matters established by statutes other than NEPA, such as the review and consultation requirements of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, should be met before or through this review process (see § 161.11 of these regulations). In addition, the draft EIS shall list all environmentally-related federal permits, licenses or other approvals required to implement the proposal as specified in § 1502.25(b) of the CEQ Regulations.
