
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter Q - Environmental Protection
#### PART 161 - REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)
##### Subpart C - Environmental Review Procedures
###### § 161.9 Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
####### Public involvement.

(f)(1) Departmental officials will make diligent efforts to involve the public in implementing these regulations as provided in §§ 1501.4(e), 1503.1(a)(e) and 1506.6 of the CEQ Regulations.

(2) Interested persons can obtain information on the Department's environmental impact statements and other aspects of the Department's NEPA process by contacting the Director, Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues , Room 7820, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (tel. 202/632-9266). Information pertaining to the NEPA process may be sent to the above address.notices concerning the Department's environmental documents shall specify where such information relevant to the documents in question may be obtained.

(3) The responsible action officer shall identify those persons, community organizations, environmental interest groups, international organizations or other bodies which may have an interest in or be affected by the proposed Departmental action and who should therefore be involved in the NEPA process. With the assistance of the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues, the responsible action shall transmit a list of such persons, groups and organizations to the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues at the same time he submits:

(i) A recommendation regarding a "Finding of no significant impact";

(ii) A "Notice of intent to prepare an EIS";

(iii) A recommendation on possible public hearings (see § 1506.6(c) of CEQ Regulations);

(iv) A draft EIS, or

(v) A final EIS.

(4) The responsible action officer shall consult with the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues and make recommendations regarding the need for public hearings. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall, as necessary, review such recommendations with the Office of the Legal Adviser.
