
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter Q - Environmental Protection
#### PART 161 - REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)
##### Subpart C - Environmental Review Procedures
###### § 161.9 Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
####### Preparation of final environmental impact statement.

(g)(1) After conclusion of the review process with other Federal, State and local agencies and the public, the responsible action officer shall consider suggestions received and revise the draft environmental impact statement as appropriate in accordance with part 1502 and § 1501.8 and §§ 1506.2 through 1506.7 of the CEQ Regulations.

(2) Five copies of the preliminary final environmental impact statement, with attached copies of the comments received and suggested responses, shall be provided to the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues will, as appropriate, obtain additional comments from any other appropriate Departmental bureau or offices and notify the responsible action officer of any further changes required and the number of final statements to be transmitted. The Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues shall submit five copies of the final statement to the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Environmental Review. Copies shall also be sent to all parties who commented and to other interested parties in accordance with § 1506.9 of the CEQ Regulations.

(3) Each draft and final statement, the supporting documentation, and the "Record of decision" (see § 161.9(h) of these regulations) shall be available for public review and copying at the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues (OES/ENH), Room 7820, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (tel. 202/632-9267).
