
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter Q - Environmental Protection
#### PART 161 - REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)
##### Subpart C - Environmental Review Procedures
###### ยง 161.9 Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
####### Programmatic and generic environmental impact statements.

(l)(1) Before preparing an environmental document under these regulations the responsible action officer should determine if there exists a generic or programmatic environmental document analyzing actions, effects or issues similar to those involved in the proposed action. A generic environmental document reviews the environmental effects that are generic or common to a class of Departmental actions which may not be specific to any single country or area. Where such a document is prepared it could be applied to a number of similar specific country applications. If a generic document exists and if it deals with relevant similarities in the action, such as common timing, environmental impacts, alternatives, methods of implementation or subject matter it will not be necessary to prepare further environmental documentation.

(2) A programmatic environmental document shall focus its analysis on the environmental aspects of an entire program rather than on the specific elements of the program. If a programmatic environmental document has already been prepared the responsible action officer should determine whether it adequately deals with the environmental effects of the particular action under review. If the programmatic document adequately reviews the environmental impacts of the action under consideration, then additional environmental documentation is not required under these regulations. In preparing environmental documents on specific actions, Departmental officers shall consider the advisability of modifying or expanding the documents so they may serve as generic or programmatic documents for a broader range of actions.
