
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter Q - Environmental Protection
#### PART 161 - REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA)
##### Subpart C - Environmental Review Procedures
###### ยง 161.9 Specific steps in the Department's NEPA process.
####### Classified material.

(1)Most Departmental environmental documents will not normally contain classified or administratively controlled material (see ยง 1507.3(c) of the CEQ Regulations); in some cases, however, an environmental document must include such material to evaluate adequately environmental effects. In such cases Departmental environmental documents, or portions thereof, may be classified. Such material should, if possible, be confined to a classified annex of the environmental document. Approval for classification must be granted with the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs and the Office of the Legal Adviser, and the assistant secretary of the bureau with the action responsibility for the proposed action. In these cases, Departmental environmental documents or portions thereof may be classified in accordance with the criteria set forth in Executive Order 12065, dated December 1, 1978. Handling and disclosure of classified or administratively controlled material shall be governed by 22 CFR part 9. The portions of an environmental document which are not classified or administratively controlled will be made available to persons outside the Department, as provided in 22 CFR part 9. Classification does not preclude the obligation to ensure that environmental documents are reviewed by competent scientific and technical experts. Appropriate arrangements will be made through the Office of Environmental Quality and Transboundary Issues or Federal agency review of classified or administratively controlled environmental documents.
