
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter R - Access to Information
#### PART 171 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act Provisions
###### ยง 171.16 Waiver or reduction of fees.
####### i.e.,

(ii) The primary interest in disclosure,whether disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(iii) Requests for purposes of writing a book, an article, or other publication will not be considered a commercial purpose.

(b) The Department may refuse to consider waiver or reduction of fees for requesters from whom unpaid fees remain owed to the Department for another FOIA request.

(c) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees, a waiver or reduction shall be granted for only those records.

(d) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the Department and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester shall be required to pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.

(e) The Division Chief of the Requester Liaison Division in IPS will issue all initial decisions on whether to grant or deny requests for a fee waiver. A decision to refuse to waive or reduce fees may be appealed to the Director of IPS within 30 calendar days of the date of the Department's refusal letter. See ยง 171.4 for address information. A decision in writing on the appeal shall be issued within 20 working days of the receipt of the appeal.
