
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter R - Access to Information
#### PART 171 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Privacy Act Provisions
###### ยง 171.26 Exemptions.
####### Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).

(1)Records contained within the following systems of records are exempt under this section to the extent that they are subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1).

Board of Appellate Review Records. STATE-02.

Congressional Correspondence. STATE-43.

Congressional Travel Records. STATE-44.

Coordinator for the Combating of Terrorism Records. STATE-06.

Email Archive Management Records. STATE-01.

External Research Records. STATE-10.

Extradition Records. STATE-11.

Family Advocacy Case Records. STATE-75.

Foreign Assistance Inspection Records. STATE-48.

Human Resources Records. STATE-31.

Information Access Programs Records. STATE-35.

Intelligence and Research Records. STATE-15.

International Organizations Records. STATE-17.

Law of the Sea Records. STATE-19.

Legal Case Management Records. STATE-21.

Munitions Control Records. STATE-42.

Overseas Citizens Services Records. STATE-05.

Passport Records. STATE-26.

Personality Cross Reference Index to the Secretariat Automated Data Index. STATE-28.

Personality Index to the Central Foreign Policy Records. STATE-29.

Personnel Payroll Records. STATE-30.

Office of Inspector General Investigation Management System. STATE-53.

Records of the Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for International Claims and Investment Disputes. STATE-54.

Risk Analysis and Management Records. STATE-78.

Rover Records. STATE-41.

Records of Domestic Accounts Receivable. STATE-23.

Records of the Office of White House Liaison. STATE-34.

Refugee Records. STATE-59.

Security Records. STATE-36.

Visa Records. STATE-39.
