
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 191 - HOSTAGE RELIEF ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Educational Benefits
###### § 191.33 Administration of benefits.

(a) Any person desiring benefits under this part shall apply in writing to the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520. The application shall specify the benefits desired and the basis of eligibility for those benefits. The Secretary of State shall make determinations of eligibility for benefits under this part, and shall forward approved applications to the Veterans Administration and advise the applicant of the name and address of the office in the Veterans Administration that will counsel the eligible persons on how to obtain the benefits that have been approved. Persons whose applications are disapproved shall be advised of the reasons for the disapproval.

(b) The Veterans Administration shall provide the same level and kind of assistance, including payments (by advancement or reimbursement) for authorized expenses up to the same maximum amounts, to spouses and children of hostages, and to Principals following their release from captivity as it does to eligible spouses and children of veterans and to eligible veterans, respectively, under chapters 35 and 36 of title 38, United States Code. The Veterans Administration shall, following consultation with the Secretary of State and under procedures it has established to administer section 1724 of title 38, United States Code, discontinue assistance for any individual whose conduct or progress is unsatisfactory under standards consistent with those established pursuant to such section 1724.

(c) An Advisory Board shall be established to advise on eligibility for benefits under paragraphs (c) and (d) of §§ 191.31 and 191.32. The Board shall be composed of the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration as Chairperson, the Director of the Office of Medical Services of the Department of State, the Executive Director of the regional bureau of the Department of State in whose region the relevant hostile action occurred, the Director of Personnel or other designee of the applicable employing agency, and a representative of the Veterans Administration designated by the Administrator.

(d) If an application is received from a spouse or child for extended training under § 191.31(c), the Secretary of Administration shall determine with the advice of the Advisory Board whether the Principal, following release from captivity, is incapacitated by the hostage experience to the extent that (1) he or she has not returned to full-time active duty and is unlikely to be able to resume the normal duties of his or her position or career, or (2) in the event of a separation from Government service, a comparable position or career, for at least six months from the date the Principal is released from captivity. If the Secretary makes such a determination, he or she may approve, within the limits of § 191.34, an application under § 191.31(c) for up to one year of education or training. If the Principal remains incapacitated, the Secretary may approve additional training or education up to the maximum authorized under § 191.34.
