
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 192 - VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 192.1 Declarations of hostile action.

(a)(1) The Secretary of State shall declare when and where individuals in the Civil Service of the United States, including members of the Foreign Service and foreign service nationals, or a citizen, national or resident alien of the United States rendering personal services to the United States similar to the service of an individual in the Civil Service, have been placed in captive status commencing on or after November 4, 1979, for purposes of ยง 192.11(b) or January 21, 1981, for all other purposes under this part, which arises because of hostile action abroad and is a result of the individual's relationship with the U.S. Government as provided in the Victims of Terrorism Compensation Act, codified in 5 U.S.C. 5569 and 5570 and Executive Order 12598.

(2) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall also declare when and where individuals in the Civil Service of the United States including members of the Foreign Service and foreign service nationals, including individuals rendering personal services to the United States similar to the service of an individual in the Civil Service, and family members of these individuals are eligible to receive compensation for disability or death occurring after January 21, 1981. Such determination shall be based on the decision by the Secretary of State that the disability or death was caused by hostile action abroad and was a result of the individual's relationship with the Government.

(3) Declarations of hostile action in domestic situations shall be made by the Secretary of State in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the head of the employing agency or agencies.

(b) The Secretary of State for actions abroad, or Agency Head for domestic actions, upon his or her own initiative, or upon application under ยง 192.2 shall determine which individuals in captive or missing status as so declared shall be considered captives eligible for benefits under the Act. The Secretary or Agency Head shall also determine who is eligible under the Act for benefits as a member of a family or household of a captive. The determination of the Secretary or Agency Head shall be final for purposes of determining captive status and cash payments, and not subject to judicial review, but any interested person may request reconsideration on the basis of information not considered at the time of original determination. The criteria for determination are set forth in sections 5569 and 5570 of title 5 of U.S.C., and in these regulations.
