
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 192 - VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION
##### Subpart B - Payment of Salary and Other Benefits for Captive Situations
###### ยง 192.12 Administration of benefits.

(a) The amount deducted from the pay and allowances of captives must be recorded in the individual accounts of the agency concerned. A Treasury designated account, set up on the books of the agency concerned, may be utilized by the head of an agency to report the net amount of pay, allowances and interest credited to captives pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5569(b). Interest payments under this section shall be paid out of funds available for salaries and expenses of the agency. Interest shall be computed at a rate for any calendar quarter equal to the average rate paid on United States Treasury bills with 3-month maturities issued during the preceding calendar quarter, with quarterly compounding.

(b) Cash payments to captives for each day of captivity shall be made by the head of an agency before the end of the one-year period beginning on the date on which the captive status terminates. In the event the captive dies in captivity or prior to payment of these benefits, payment shall be made to the eligible survivors under ยง 192.51(c) or the estate. A payment under this subchapter may be deferred or denied by the head of an agency pending determination of an offense committed by the captive under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8312.
