
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 3a - ACCEPTANCE OF EMPLOYMENT FROM FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
##### ยง 3a.7 Notification of disapproval and reconsideration.

(a) The Director, Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, will notify the applicant directly when an applicant's proposed foreign employment is disapproved, and will inform the Secretary concerned.

(b) Each notification of disapproval under this section must include a statement of the reasons for the disapproval, with as much specificity as security and foreign policy considerations permit, together with a notice of the applicant's right to seek reconsideration of the disapproval under paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Within 60 days after receipt of the notice of disapproval, an applicant whose request has been disapproved may submit a request for reconsideration by the Director, Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs. A request for reconsideration should provide information relevant to the reasons set forth in the notice of disapproval.

(d) The disapproval of a request by the Director, Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, will be final, unless a timely request for reconsideration is received. In the event of a request for reconsideration, the Director, Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, will make a final decision after reviewing the record of the request. A final decision after reconsideration to approve the applicant's proposed employment with a foreign government will be communicated to the Secretary concerned as provided in ยง 3a.6. A final decision after reconsideration to disapprove the applicant's proposed employment with a foreign government will be communicated directly to the applicant as provided in paragraph (a) of this section and the Secretary concerned will be informed. The Director's authority to make a final decision after reconsideration may not be redelegated.
