
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 192 - VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION
##### Subpart E - Educational Benefits for Captive Situations
###### § 192.43 Administration of benefits.

(a) Any person desiring benefits under this part, shall apply in writing to the Director General of the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington, DC 20502. The application shall specify the benefits desired and the basis of eligibility for those benefits. The Director General of the Foreign Service, on behalf of the Secretary of State, shall make determinations of eligibility for benefits under this part, and shall forward certified applications to the Department of Veterans' Affairs and advise the applicant of the name and address of the office in the Department of Veterans' Affairs that will counsel the eligible persons on how to obtain the benefits that have been approved. Persons whose applications are disapproved shall be advised in writing of the reason for the disapproval. Applications for foreign service nationals and their dependents shall be made with the Office of Foreign Service National Personnel, Department of State. That office will handle the administrative details and benefits using the criteria specified in this subchapter.

(b) The Department of Veterans' Affairs shall provide the same level and kind of assistance, including payments (by advancement or reimbursement) for authorized expenses up to the same maximum amounts, to spouses and children of captives, and to Principals following their release from captivity as it does to eligible spouses and children of veterans and to eligible veterans, respectively, under chapters 35 and 36 of title 38 U.S.C. The Department of Veterans' Affairs shall, under procedures it has established to administer section 1724 of title 38, U.S.C., discontinue assistance for any individual whose conduct or progress is unsatisfactory under standards consistent with those established pursuant to such section 1724.

(c) An Advisory Board shall be established to advise on eligibility for benefits under paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 192.41. The Board shall be composed of the Under Secretary of State for Management as Chair, the Director of the Office of Medical Services of the Department of State, the Executive Director of the regional bureau of the Department of State in whose region the relevant hostile action occurred, the Director of Personnel or other designee of the applicable employing agency, and a representative of the Department of Veterans' Affairs designated by the Secretary.

(d) If an application is received from a spouse or child for extended training under § 192.41(c), the Director General of the Foreign Service of the Department of State shall determine with the advice of the Advisory Board whether the Principal, following release from captivity, is incapacitated by the captive experience-

(1) To the extent that he or she has not returned to full-time active duty and is unlikely to be able to resume the normal duties of his or her position or career, or

(2) In the event of a separation from Government service, that the Principal is unable to assume a comparable position or career, for at least six months from the date of release from captivity. If the Secretary makes such a determination, he or she may approve, within the limits of § 192.44, an application under § 192.41(c) for up to one year of education or training. If the Principal remains incapacitated, the Secretary may approve additional training or education up to the maximum authorized under 192.44.
