
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 192 - VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION
##### Subpart F - Compensation for Disability or Death
###### § 192.51 Death benefit.

(a) The Secretary of State or Agency Head may provide for payment, by the employing agency, of a death benefit to the surviving dependents of any eligible individual under § 192.1(a) who dies as a result of injuries caused by hostile action whose death was the result of the individual's relationship with the Government.

(b) The death benefit payment for an employee shall be equal to one year's salary at the time of death. Such death benefit is subject to the offset provisions under § 192.50(b) including the Federal Employees' Compensation Act. The death benefit for an employee's spouse and other eligible individuals under § 192.1(b) of subpart A shall be equal to one year's salary of the principal at the time of death.

(c) A death benefit payment for an adult under this section shall be made as follows:

(1) First, to the widow or widower.

(2) Second, to the dependent child, or children in equal shares, if there is no widow or widower.

(3) Third, to the dependent parent, or dependent parents in equal shares, if there is no widow, widower, or dependent child.

(4) Fourth, to adult, non-dependent children in equal shares.

(d) A death benefit payment for a child under this section shall be made as follows: To the surviving parents or legal guardian. If there are no surviving parents or legal guardian, no payment shall be made.

(e) As used in this section-each of the terms "widow", "widower", and "parent" shall have the same meaning given such term by section 8101 of title 5, U.S.C.; "child" has the meaning given in § 192.3(b)(2).
