
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter T - Hostage Relief
#### PART 192 - VICTIMS OF TERRORISM COMPENSATION
##### Subpart F - Compensation for Disability or Death
###### ยง 192.52 Disability benefits.

(a) Principals who qualify for benefits under ยง 192.1 and are employees of the U.S. Government are considered for disability payments under programs administered by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP), Department of Labor, or in the case of foreign service national employees, the programs may be administered by either OWCP or the organizational authority in the country of employment which provides similar coverage under the local compensation plan established pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 3968. Normal filing procedures as specified by either OWCP or the local organizational authority which provides such coverage should be followed in determining eligibility. Duplicate benefits may not be received from both OWCP and the local organizational authority for the same claim. Additional benefits to persons qualifying for full FECA or similar benefits would not normally be payable under this subpart, except to foreign service national employees whose benefit levels are below comparable benefits payable to U.S. citizen employees under FECA. Foreign service national employees whose benefit levels are below comparable benefits payable to U.S. citizens under FECA may receive benefits under this subpart so that total benefits received are comparable to the benefits payable to U.S. citizen employees under FECA.

(b) Family members who do not qualify for either OWCP benefits or benefits from the organizational authority in the country of employment which provides similar coverage, and anyone eligible under ยง 192.1(a) who does not qualify for full benefits from OWCP, must file an application for disability benefits with the Office of Medical Services, Department of State, for a determination of eligibility under this subpart, if connected with hostile action abroad. Applications made in connection with hostile action in domestic situations will be directed to the Agency Head. Such applications for disability payments will be considered using the same criteria for determination as established by OWCP.

(c) Family members who are determined to be disabled by the Office of Medical Services, or Agency Head using the OWCP criteria, are eligible to receive a lump-sum payment based on the following guidelines:
