
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter U - International Commercial Arbitration
#### PART 194 - INTER-AMERICAN COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION COMMISSION RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Appendix A to Part 194 - Inter-American Commercial Arbitration Commission Rules of Procedure (As Amended April 1, 2002)
###### de jure,de facto

2. In the event that an arbitrator fails to fulfill his functions or in the event of theorimpossibility of performing his function, or if the IACAC determines that there are sufficient reasons to accept the resignation of an arbitrator, the procedure in respect of the challenge and replacement of an arbitrator as provided in the preceding articles shall apply.

3. If an arbitrator on a three-person tribunal does not participate in the arbitration, the two other arbitrators shall have the power in their sole discretion to continue the arbitration and make any decision, ruling or award, notwithstanding the refusal of the third arbitrator to participate. In deciding whether to continue the arbitration or to render any decision, ruling or award, the two other arbitrators shall take into account the stage of the arbitration proceedings, the reasons, if any, stated by the third arbitrator for not participating, as well as such other matters they consider appropriate in the circumstances of the case. If the two arbitrators decide not to continue the arbitration without the participation of the third arbitrator, the IACAC on proof satisfactory to it shall declare the office vacant, and the party that initially appointed him shall proceed to appoint a substitute arbitrator within thirty (30) days following the vacancy declaration. If the designation is not made within the stated term, then the substitute arbitrator will be appointed by the IACAC.

If under Articles 8 to 10 the sole or presiding arbitrator is replaced, any hearings held previously shall be repeated; if any other arbitrator is replaced, such prior hearings may be repeated at the discretion of the arbitral tribunal.

1. Subject to these rules, the arbitral tribunal may conduct the arbitration in such manner as it considers appropriate, provided that the parties are treated with equality and that at any stage of the proceedings each party is given a full opportunity of presenting his case.

2. If either party so requests at any stage of the proceedings, the arbitral tribunal shall hold hearings for the presentation of evidence by witnesses, including expert witnesses, or for oral argument. In the absence of such a request, the arbitral tribunal shall decide whether to hold such hearings or whether the proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of documents and other evidence.

3. All documents or information supplied to the arbitral tribunal by one party shall at the same time be communicated by that party to the other party.

1. If the parties have not reached an agreement regarding the place of arbitration, the place of arbitration may initially be determined by the IACAC, subject to the power of the tribunal to determine finally the place of arbitration within sixty (60) days following the appointment of the last arbitrator. All such determinations shall be made having regard for the contentions of the parties and the circumstances of the case.

2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tribunal may meet in any place it may deem appropriate to hold hearings, hold meetings for consultation, hear witnesses, or inspect property or documents. The parties shall be given sufficient written notice to enable them to be present at any such proceeding.

1. Subject to an agreement by the parties, the arbitral tribunal shall, promptly after its appointment, determine the language or languages to be used in the proceedings. This determination shall apply to the statement of claim, the statement of defense, and any further written statements and, if oral hearings take place, to the language or languages to be used in such hearings.

2. The arbitral tribunal may order that any documents annexed to the statement of claim or statement of defense, and any supplementary documents or exhibits submitted in the course of the proceedings, delivered in their original language, shall be accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed upon by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal.

1. Unless the statement of claim was contained in the request for arbitration, within a period of time to be determined by the arbitral tribunal, the claimant shall communicate his statement of claim in writing to the respondent and to each of the arbitrators, with a copy to the IACAC. A copy of the contract, and of the arbitration agreement if not contained in the contract, shall be annexed thereto.

2. The statement of claim shall include the following particulars:

(a) The names and addresses of the parties;

(b) A statement of the facts supporting the claim;

(c) The points at issue;

(d) The relief or remedy sought.

The claimant may annex to his statement of claim all documents he deems relevant or may add a reference to the documents or other evidence he will submit.

1. Within a period of time to be determined by the arbitral tribunal, the respondent shall communicate his statement of defense in writing to the claimant and to each of the arbitrators, with a copy to the IACAC.

2. The statement of defense shall reply to the particulars (b), (c) and (d) of the statement of claim (Article 15, paragraph 2). The respondent may annex to his statement the documents on which he relies for his defense or may add a reference to the documents or other evidence he will submit.

3. In his statement of defense, or at a later stage in the arbitral proceedings if the arbitral tribunal decides that the delay was justified under the circumstances, the respondent may make a counterclaim arising out of the same contract, or rely on a claim arising out of the same contract for the purpose of a set-off.

4. The requirements provided in Article 15, paragraph 2, of these Rules shall apply to both any counterclaim or to any claim presented for the purposes of a set-off.

During the course of arbitral proceedings either party may amend or supplement his claim or defense unless the arbitral tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow such amendment, having regard to the delay in making it or prejudice to the other party or any other circumstances. However, a claim may not be amended in such a manner that the amended claim falls outside the scope of the arbitration clause or separate arbitration agreement.

1. The arbitral tribunal shall have the power to rule on objections that it has no jurisdiction, including any objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration clause or of the separate arbitration agreement.

2. The arbitral tribunal shall have the power to determine the existence or the validity of the contract of which an arbitration clause or an arbitration agreement forms a part.
