
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter U - International Commercial Arbitration
#### PART 194 - INTER-AMERICAN COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION COMMISSION RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Appendix A to Part 194 - Inter-American Commercial Arbitration Commission Rules of Procedure (As Amended April 1, 2002)
###### amiable compositeur,ex aequo et bono

2. The arbitral tribunal shall decide asoronly if the parties have expressly authorized the arbitral tribunal to do so and if the law applicable to the arbitral procedure permits such arbitration.

3. In all cases, the arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take into account the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction.

1. If, before the award is made, the parties agree on a settlement of the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall either issue an order for the termination of the arbitral proceedings or, if requested by both parties and accepted by the tribunal, record the settlement in the form of an arbitral award on agreed terms. The arbitral tribunal is not obliged to give reasons for such an award.

2. If, before the award is made, the continuation of the arbitral proceedings becomes unnecessary or impossible for any reason not mentioned in paragraph 1, the arbitral tribunal shall inform the parties of its intention to issue an order for the termination of the proceedings. The arbitral tribunal shall have the power to issue such an order unless a party raises justifiable grounds for objection.

3. Copies of the order for termination of the arbitral proceedings or of the arbitral award on agreed terms, signed by the arbitrators, shall be communicated by the arbitral tribunal to the parties. Where an arbitral award on agreed terms is made, the provisions of Article 29, paragraphs 2 and 4, shall apply.

1. Within thirty days after the receipt of the award, either party may request that the arbitral tribunal give an interpretation of the award. The tribunal shall notify the other party or parties to the proceedings of such request.

2. The interpretation shall be given in writing within forty-five days after the receipt of the request. The interpretation shall form part of the award and the provisions of Article 29, paragraphs 2 to 7, shall apply.

1. Within thirty days after the receipt of the award, either party may request the arbitral tribunal, which shall notify the other party, to correct in the award any errors in computation, any clerical or typographical errors, or any errors of similar nature. The arbitral tribunal may within thirty days after the communication of the award make such corrections on its own initiative.

2. Such corrections shall be in writing, and the provisions of Article 29, paragraphs 2 to 7, shall apply.

1. Within thirty days after the receipt of the award, either party may request the arbitral tribunal, which shall notify the other party, to make an additional award as to claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the award.

2. If the arbitral tribunal considers the request for an additional award to be justified and considers that the omission can be rectified without any further hearings or evidence, it shall complete its award within sixty days after the receipt of the request.

3. When an additional award is made, the provisions of Article 29, paragraphs 2 to 7, shall apply.

The arbitral tribunal shall fix the costs of arbitration in its award. The term "costs" includes only:

(a) The fees of the arbitral tribunal, to be stated separately as to each arbitrator and to be fixed by the tribunal itself in accordance with Article 36;

(b) The travel and other expenses incurred by the arbitrators;

(c) The costs of expert advice and of other assistance required by the arbitral tribunal;

(d) The travel and other expenses of witnesses to the extent such expenses are approved by the arbitral tribunal;

(e) The costs for legal representation and assistance of the successful party if such costs were claimed during the arbitral proceedings, and only to the extent that the arbitral tribunal determines that the amount of such costs is reasonable;

(f) The administrative fee and other service charges of the IACAC; which shall be set by the Arbitrator Nominating Committee of the IACAC in accordance with the schedule in effect at the time of the commencement of the arbitration. The committee may set a provisional fee when the proceedings are instituted and the final amount before the award is rendered, so that such amount may be taken into account by the tribunal when rendering its award.

1. The fees of the arbitral tribunal and the administrative fees for the IACAC shall be set in accordance with the schedule in effect at the time of commencement of the arbitration. The fees shall be calculated on the basis of the amount involved in the arbitration; if that amount cannot be determined, the fees shall be set discretionally.

2. The amount between the maximum and minimum range in the schedule shall be set in accordance with the nature of the dispute, the complexity of the subject matter and any other relevant circumstances of the case.

1. The costs of arbitration shall be borne by the unsuccessful party. However, the arbitral tribunal may apportion each of such costs between the parties if it determines that apportionment is reasonable, taking into account the circumstances of the case.

2. When the arbitral tribunal issues an order for the termination of the arbitral proceedings or makes an award on agreed terms, it shall fix the costs of arbitration referred to in Article 35 in the text of that order or award.

3. No additional fees may be charged by an arbitral tribunal for interpretation or correction or completion of its award under Articles 32 to 34.

1. The arbitral tribunal, on its establishment, or the Arbitrator Nominating Committee of the IACAC within its purview, may request each party to deposit an equal amount as an advance for the costs referred to in Article 35, paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (f).

2. During the course of the arbitral proceedings the arbitral tribunal may request supplementary deposits from the parties.

3. When a party so requests, the arbitral tribunal shall fix the amounts of any deposits or supplementary deposits only after consultation with the IACAC, which may make any comments to the arbitral tribunal which it deems appropriate concerning the amounts of such deposits and supplementary deposits.

4. If the required deposits are not paid in full within thirty days after the receipt of the request, the arbitral tribunal shall so inform the parties in order that one or another of them may make the required payment. Should one of the parties fail to pay its deposits in full, the other party may do so in its stead. If payment in full is not made, the arbitral tribunal may order the suspension or termination of the arbitral proceedings.

5. After the award has been made, the arbitral tribunal shall render an accounting to the parties of the deposits received and return any unexpended balance to the parties.

Any disputes arising under contracts that stipulate resolution of such disputes pursuant to the IACAC Rules of Procedure and that have not been submitted to an arbitral tribunal as of the date on which these rules enter into effect shall be subject to these rules in their entirety.
