
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 201 - RULES AND PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO COMMODITY TRANSACTIONS FINANCED BY USAID
#### Subpart B - Conditions Governing the Eligibility of Procurement Transactions for USAID Financing
##### ยง 201.15 U.S. flag vessel shipping requirements.
###### Methods of compliance.

(b)(1) Compliance with these requirements with respect to dry cargo liner vessels shall be achieved for the total of liner shipments made during the term of the loan or grant agreement. If USAID determines at any time during the term of the agreement that compliance may not be achieved, USAID may require that all subsequent shipments be made on U.S. flag liners until compliance is assured.

(2) Compliance with these requirements with respect to dry bulk carriers and tankers shall be achieved for each quantitative unit of cargo. A quantitative unit of cargo is the total tonnage of a commodity or commodities included in one invitation for bids or other solicitation of offers from ocean carriers for the transportation of cargo which may move in full shipload lots. USAID shall approve a charter or other contract of affreightment for a non-U.S. flag vessel only if USAID has determined that at least 50% of the quantitative unit will move on U.S. flag vessels, to the extent that such vessels are available at fair and reasonable rates for such vessels. U.S. flag dry cargo liners whose offers are responsive to the terms of the invitation for bids or other solicitation of vessels may be used for achieving compliance for the quantitative unit.
