
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 209 - NON-DISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### ยง 209.10 Decisions and notices.
##### Decision by a hearing examiner.

(a)If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner such hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the Administrator for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and the complainant. Where the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner the applicant or recipient may within 30 days of the mailing of such notice of initial decision file with the Administrator his exceptions to the initial decision, with his reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the Administrator may on his own motion within 45 days after the initial decision serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that he will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of such notice of review the Administrator shall review the initial decision and issue his own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. The decision of the Administrator shall be mailed promptly to the applicant or recipient and the complainant, if any. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Administrator.
