
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.1 General purpose and scope; legislation.
##### Legislation.

(a)The Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended (Pub. L. 480), was further revised by the Agricultural Development and Trade Act of 1990, Public Law 101-624, 104 Stat. 3632-65 (1990). The legislation implemented by the regulation in this part (as of the date of issuance of this part) includes sections of Public Law 480, as follows: Sections 1, 2, 3, 201, 202, 203, 207, 401, 402, 403, 404, 406, 407, 408, 409, 413 and 414. Pursuant to title II of Public Law 480, A.I.D. may transfer agricultural commodities to address famine or other urgent or extraordinary relief requirements; combat malnutrition, especially in children and mothers; carry out activities that attempt to alleviate the causes of hunger, mortality and morbidity; promote economic and community development; promote sound environmental practices; and carry out feeding programs. Agricultural commodities may be provided to meet emergency food needs through foreign governments and private or public organizations, including intergovernmental organizations. Section 202(a) of Public Law 480 authorizes A.I.D., notwithstanding any other provision of law, to provide agricultural commodities for emergency food needs in such manner and on such terms and conditions as A.I.D. determines appropriate to respond to the emergency. Agricultural commodities also may be provided for non-emergency assistance through private voluntary organizations or cooperatives which are, to the extent practicable, registered with A.I.D., and through intergovernmental organizations.
