
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.4 Availability and shipment of commodities.
##### Shipments booked by nongovernmental cooperating sponsor.

(2)Requests for shipment of commodities shall originate with the cooperating sponsor and shall be cleared by USAID or the Diplomatic Post before transmittal to the cooperating sponsor's headquarters for concurrence and issuance. USAID or the Diplomatic Post shall promptly clear such requests for shipment of commodities or, if there is reason for delay or disapproval, advise the cooperating sponsor and AID/W within seven (7) days of receipt of requests for shipment. After the cooperating sponsor headquarters concurs in the request and issues the order, the original will be sent promptly to AID/W which will forward it to CCC for procurement action with a copy to USAID or the Diplomatic Post. Headquarters of cooperating sponsors which book their own shipments shall provide their representatives and USAID or the Diplomatic Post with the names of vessels, ETAs and other pertinent information on shipments booked. At the time of exportation of commodities, the booking agent representing the cooperating sponsor shall send applicable ocean bills of lading by airmail or by the fastest means available to USDA (Chief, Processed Commodities Division, Kansas City ASCS Commodity Office (KCCO), P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, Missouri 64141-6205), to USAID or the Diplomatic Post (and where applicable to the USAID Controller and the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor representative), to AID/W, FA/OP/TRANS (see ยง 211.4(d)), and to the consignee in the country of destination in sufficient time to advise of the arrival of the shipment. Nongovernmental cooperating sponsors also will forward cable advice of actual exportation to their program directors in countries within the Caribbean area in view of the short transit time from U.S. port to destination.

(3) Cooperating sponsors awarding USAID-financed ocean transportation bookings of food aid under the Public Law 480, title II program shall follow consistent, transparent, fair and effective procedures. In order to promote these objectives, USAID may formulate, and from time-to-time amend, uniform standard booking guidelines relating to such bookings. Guidelines will be finalized only after consultation with affected cooperating sponsors, freight forwarders and carriers as required by the Agricultural Development and Trade Act of 1990 or other applicable legislation. Copies of the guidelines and any proposed amendments may be obtained from the Transportation Division, Office of Procurement, Agency for International Development, Washington, DC 20523.
