
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.5 Obligations of cooperating sponsor.
##### Operational Plans.

(a)Each cooperating sponsor shall submit a description of the programs it is sponsoring or proposes to sponsor to USAID or the Diplomatic Post for its approval. AID/W will prescribe the format and timing for submittals and provide final approval of the Operational Plan. This Operational Plan will include program purposes and goals; criteria for measuring program effectiveness; a description of the activities for which commodities, monetized proceeds, or program income will be provided or used; and other specific provisions in addition to those set forth in this Regulation. Further, this description will include information from which it may be determined that the distribution of commodities in the recipient country will not result in a substantial disincentive to domestic production and that adequate storage facilities will be available in the recipient country at the time of arrival of the commodity to prevent spoilage or waste of the commodity. For preparation of the Operational Plan, see appendix I to this regulation. If a cooperating sponsor submits a multi-year Operational Plan that is approved by A.I.D., the Operational Plan provided with an AER each subsequent year should cover only those components or features which require updating or the cooperating sponsor proposes to change. A.I.D. will issue guidance each year regarding Operational Plans that must be submitted by cooperating sponsors. Within the limits of the total amount of commodities, monetized proceeds and program income approved by A.I.D. in the Operational Plan, the cooperating sponsor may increase or decrease by not to exceed 10 percent the amount of commodities, monetized proceeds or program income allocated to approved program categories or components of the Operational Plan. Such adjustments must be identified specifically in the annual report submitted by a cooperating sponsor under ยง 211.10(b) of the Regulation. A cooperating sponsor may not otherwise deviate from the Operational Plan without the prior written approval of A.I.D.
