
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.5 Obligations of cooperating sponsor.
##### Monetization programs.,i.e.

(j)Provisions of this Regulation that prohibit or restrict the sale of commodities or require marking or labeling of containers do not apply to the extent the sale of commodities is approved by A.I.D. Cooperating sponsors are not required to monitor, manage, report on or account for the distribution or use of commodities after title to the commodities has passed to buyers or other third parties pursuant to a sale under a monetization program and all sales proceeds have been fully deposited in the special interest-bearing account established by the cooperating sponsor for monetized proceeds. However, the receipt and use of sales proceeds must be monitored, managed, reported and accounted for as provided in this Regulation, with special reference to paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section, and ยง 211.10. It is not mandatory that commodities approved for monetization be imported and sold free from all duties and taxes, but nongovernmental cooperating sponsors may negotiate agreements with the host government permitting the tax-free import and sale of such commodities. Even where the cooperating sponsor negotiates tax-exempt status, the prices at which the cooperating sponsor sells the commodities to the purchaser should reflect prices that would be obtained in a commercial transaction,, the prices would include the cost of duties and taxes, except as A.I.D. may otherwise agree in writing. Thus, the amounts normally paid for duties and taxes would accrue for the benefit of the cooperating sponsor's approved program. Cooperating sponsors should refer to the "Monetization Field Manual" for more comprehensive guidance on setting the sales price. A copy of the Monetization Manual may be obtained from AID/W-FHA/PPE, Washington, DC 20523.
