
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.8 Disposition of commodities unfit for authorized use.
##### After delivery to cooperating sponsor.

(b)(1) If after arrival in a foreign country it appears that all or part of the commodities, may be unfit for the use authorized in the Operational Plan or TA, the cooperating sponsor shall immediately arrange for inspection of the commodity by a public health official or other competent authority approved by USAID or the Diplomatic Post. If no competent local authority is available, USAID or the Diplomatic Post may determine whether the commodities are unfit, and if so, may direct disposal in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section. The cooperating sponsor shall arrange for the recovery for authorized use of that part designated during the inspection as suitable for program use. If, after inspection, the commodity (or any part thereof) is determined to be unfit for authorized use the cooperating sponsor shall notify USAID or the Diplomatic Post of the circumstances pertaining to the loss or damage as prescribed in ยง 211.9(f).

(2) A cooperating sponsor shall dispose of commodities determined to be unfit for authorized use in the order of priority described in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section. The concurrence of USAID or the Diplomatic Post should be requested for disposition of commodities valued at $500 or more. If the USAID or Diplomatic Post does not respond to the cooperating sponsor's request for concurrence within 15 days, the cooperating sponsor may dispose of the commodities in the manner described in its request and inform the USAID or Diplomatic Post of its action taken in accordance with this section.
