
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.8 Disposition of commodities unfit for authorized use.
##### i.e.

(i) Sale for the most appropriate use,, animal feed, fertilizer, or industrial use, at the highest obtainable price. When the commodity is sold, all U.S. Government markings shall be obliterated, removed or crossed out.

(ii) Transfer to an approved Food for Peace program for use as livestock feed. AID/W shall be advised promptly of any such transfer so that shipments from the United States to the livestock feeding program can be reduced by an equivalent amount.

(iii) Donation to a governmental or charitable organization for use as animal feed or for other nonfood use.

(iv) If the commodity is unfit for any use or if disposal in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) (i), (ii) or (iii) of this section is not possible, the commodity shall be destroyed in such manner as to prevent its use for any purpose. Commodities valued at $500 or more shall be destroyed under the observation of a representative of the USAID or Diplomatic Post if practicable. When the cooperating sponsor informs the USAID or Diplomatic Post of its intention to destroy commodities, the cooperating sponsor shall indicate the kind and amount of commodities that will be destroyed, the manner of destruction, the representative(s) of local authorities who will witness the destruction, and the date when the commodities will be destroyed. The date shall be established on the basis of programmatic need, but an effort should be made to provide a reasonable opportunity for a representative of the USAID or Diplomatic Post to attend. The commodities may be destroyed on the date indicated even if there is no representative of the USAID or Diplomatic Post to observe this action.

(3) Expenses incidental to the handling and disposition of the damaged commodity shall be paid by the cooperating sponsor unless it is determined by USAID or the Diplomatic Post that the damage could not have been prevented by the proper exercise of the cooperating sponsor's responsibility under the terms of the Operational Plan or TA. Actual expenses incurred, including third party costs, in selling the commodities may be deducted from the sales proceeds and, except for monetization programs, the net proceeds shall be deposited with the U.S. Disbursing Officer, American Embassy, with instructions to credit the deposit to CCC Account No. 20FT401. In monetization programs, net proceeds shall be deposited in the special account used for the approved program.

(4) The cooperating sponsor shall furnish USAID or the Diplomatic Post a written report in accordance with ยง 211.9(f), and the report shall enclose a certification by a public health official or other competent authority of

(i) The exact quantity of the damaged commodity disposed of because it was determined to be unfit for any use and

(ii) The manner in which the commodities were destroyed.
