
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.9 Liability for loss damage or improper distribution of commodities.
##### Ocean carrier loss and damage,Survey and outturn reports.

(c)-(1)(i) Nongovernmental cooperating sponsors shall arrange for an independent cargo surveyor to attend the discharge of the cargo and to count or weigh the cargo and examine its condition, unless USAID or the Diplomatic Post determines that such examination is not feasible, or if CCC has made other provision for such examinations and reports. The surveyor shall prepare a report of its findings showing the quantity and condition of the commodities discharged. The report also shall show the probable cause of any damage noted, and set forth the time and place when the examination was made. If practicable, the examination of the cargo shall be conducted jointly by the surveyor, the consignee, and the ocean carrier, and the survey report shall be signed by all parties. Customs receipts, port authority reports, shortlanding certificates, cargo boat notes, stevedore's tallies, etc., where applicable, shall be obtained and furnished with the report of the surveyor. Whenever a damaged commodity appears unfit for its intended use, the cooperating sponsor shall obtain

(A) A certification by a public health official or similar competent authority regarding the condition of the commodity; and

(B) A certificate of disposition if the commodity is determined to be unfit for its intended use. These certificates shall be obtained as soon as possible after discharge of the cargo. If the cooperating sponsor can provide a narrative chronology or other commentary to assist in the adjudication of ocean transportation claims, this information should be forwarded as follows: cooperating sponsors shall prepare such a statement in any case where the loss is estimated to be in excess of $5,000; all documentation shall be in English or supported by an English translation and shall be forwarded as set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section; and the cost of an English translation shall be incorporated into the survey fee. The cooperating sponsor may, at its option, also engage the independent surveyor to supervise clearance and delivery of the cargo from customs or port areas to the cooperating sponsor or its agent and to issue delivery survey reports thereon.

(ii) In the event of cargo loss or damage, a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor shall provide the names and addresses of individuals who were present at the time of discharge and during survey and who can verify the quantity lost or damaged. In the case of bulk grain shipments, the cooperating sponsor shall obtain the services of an independent surveyor to:

(A) Observe discharge of the cargo;

(B) Report on discharging method (including whether a scale was used, its type and calibration and other factors affecting its accuracy, or an explanation of why a scale was not used and how weight was determined);

(C) Furnish information as to whether cargo was discharged in accordance with port customs;

(D) Provide actual or estimated (if scales not used) quantity of cargo lost during discharge and specify how such losses occurred;

(E) Obtain copies of port and/or ship records including scale weights, where applicable, to show quantity discharged;

(F) Verify that upon conclusion of discharge, cargo holds are empty;

(G) Provide to USDA information as to quantity, type and cause of lost or damaged cargo;

(H) Furnish daily tally totals and any other pertinent information about the bagging of the bulk cargo when cargo is bagged or stacked by vessel interests; and

(I) Notify the cooperating sponsor immediately if additional services are necessary to protect cargo interests or if the surveyor has reason to believe that the correct quantity was not discharged.

(iii) Cooperating sponsors shall send to USDA copies of all reports and documents pertaining to the discharge of commodities. For those surveys arranged by CCC, the cooperating sponsors may obtain a copy of the report from the local USAID Food for Peace Officer.

(iv) CCC will reimburse a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor for the costs incurred by it in obtaining the services of an independent surveyor to conduct examinations of the cargo and render the report set forth above. Reimbursement by CCC will be made upon receipt by CCC of the survey report and the surveyor's invoice or other documents that establish the survey cost. However, CCC will not reimburse a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor for the costs of only a delivery survey, in the absence of a discharge survey, or for any other survey not taken contemporaneously with the discharge of the vessel, unless such deviation from the documentation requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section is justified to the satisfaction of CCC.

(v) CCC normally will contract for the survey of cargo on shipments furnished under Transfer Authorizations, including shipments for which A.I.D. contracts for the ocean transportation services. Survey contracts normally will be let on a competitive bid basis. However, if a USAID or Diplomatic Post desires that CCC limit its consideration to only certain selected surveyors, USAID or the Diplomatic Post shall furnish AID/W a list of eligible surveyors for forwarding to CCC. Surveyors may be omitted from the list, for instance, based on foreign relations considerations, conflicts of interest, and/or lack of demonstrated capability to carry out surveying responsibilities properly as set forth in the requirements of CCC. Upon receipt of written justification for removal of a particular survey firm, CCC will consider removal of such firm and advise the USAID via AID/W of the final determination. AID/W will furnish CCC's surveying requirements to a USAID or Diplomatic Post upon request. If CCC is unable to find a surveyor at a port to which a shipment has been consigned, CCC may request AID/W to contact USAID or the Diplomatic Post to arrange for a survey. The surveyor's bill for such services shall be submitted to USAID or the Diplomatic Post for review. After the billing has been approved, USAID or the Diplomatic Post either may pay the bill using funds in CCC account 20FT401, if available, or forward the bill to AID/W for transmittal to CCC for payment. If USAID or the Diplomatic Post pays the bill, AID/W shall be advised of the amount paid, and CCC will reimburse USAID or the Diplomatic Post.
