
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.9 Liability for loss damage or improper distribution of commodities.
##### Claims against ocean carriers.

(2)(i) Whether or not title to commodities has transferred from CCC to the cooperating sponsor, if A.I.D. contracted for the ocean transportation, CCC shall have the right to initiate, prosecute, and retain the proceeds of all claims against ocean carriers for cargo loss and/or damage arising out of shipments of commodities transferred or delivered by CCC hereunder.

(ii)(A) Unless otherwise provided in the Operational Plan or TA, nongovernmental cooperating sponsors shall file notice of any cargo loss and/or damage with the ocean carrier immediately upon discovery of any such loss and/or damage, promptly initiate claims against the ocean carrier for cargo loss and/or damage, take all necessary action to obtain restitution for losses within any applicable periods of limitations, and transmit to CCC copies of all such claims. However, the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor need not file a claim when the cargo loss and/or damage is not in excess of $100, or in any case when the loss and/or damage is between $100 and $300 and it is determined by the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor that the cost of filing and collecting the claim will exceed the amount of the claim. The nongovernmental cooperating sponsor shall transmit to CCC copies of all claims filed with the ocean carriers for cargo loss and/or damage, as well as information and/or documentation on shipments when no claim is to be filed. When General Average has been declared, no action will be taken by the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor to file or collect claims for loss or damage to commodities. (See paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.)

(B) The value of commodities misused, lost or damaged shall be determined on the basis of the domestic market price at the time and place the misuse, loss or damage occurred, or, in case it is not feasible to obtain or determine such market price, the f.o.b. or f.a.s. commercial export price of the commodity at the time and place of export, plus ocean freight charges and other costs incurred by the U.S. Government in making delivery to the cooperating sponsor. When value is determined on a cost basis, nongovernmental cooperating sponsors may add to the value any provable costs they have incurred prior to delivery by the ocean carrier. In preparing the claim statement, these costs shall be clearly segregated from costs incurred by the U.S. Government. With respect to claims other than ocean carrier loss or damage claims, at the request of the cooperating sponsor or upon the recommendation of USAID or the Diplomatic Post, AID/W may determine that such value may be established on some other justifiable basis. When replacement is made, the value of commodities misused, lost or damaged shall be their value at the time and place the misuse, loss, or damage occurred and the value of the replacement commodities shall be their value at the time and place replacement is made.

(C) Amounts collected by nongovernmental cooperating sponsors on claims against ocean carriers not in excess of $200 may be retained by the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor. On claims involving loss and/or damage having a value in excess of $200, nongovernmental cooperating sponsors may retain from collections received by them, the larger of:
