
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.9 Liability for loss damage or improper distribution of commodities.
##### 2

() Actual administrative expenses incurred in collection of the claim if approved by CCC.

(D) A nongovernmental cooperating sponsor may redetermine claims on the basis of additional documentation or information, not considered when the claims were originally filed when such documentation or information clearly changes the ocean carrier's liability. Approval of such changes by CCC is not required regardless of amount. However, copies of redetermined claims and supporting documentation or information shall be furnished to CCC.

(E) A nongovernmental cooperating sponsor may negotiate compromise settlements of claims regardless of the amount thereof, except that proposed compromise settlements of claims having a value in excess of $5,000 shall not be accepted until such action has been approved in writing by CCC. When a claim is compromised, the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor may retain from the amount collected, the amounts authorized in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) and in addition, an amount representing such percentage of the special charges described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) as the compromised amount is to the full amount of the claim. When a claim is not in excess of $600, the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor may terminate collection activity on the claim according to the standards set forth in the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR 104.3. Approval of such termination by CCC is not required, but the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor shall notify CCC when collection activity on a claim is terminated.

(F) All amounts collected in excess of the amounts authorized herein to be retained shall be remitted to CCC. For the purpose of determining the amount to be retained by the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor from the proceeds of claims filed against ocean carriers, the word "claim" shall refer to the loss and/or damage to commodities which are shipped on the same voyage of the same vessel to the same port destination, irrespective of the kinds of commodities shipped or the number of different bills of lading issued by the carrier. If a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor is unable to collect a claim or negotiate an acceptable compromise settlement within the applicable period of limitation or any extension thereof granted in writing by the liable party or parties, the rights of the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor to the claim shall be assigned to CCC in sufficient time to permit the filing of legal action prior to the expiration of the period of limitation or any extension thereof. Nongovernmental cooperating sponsors shall promptly assign their claim rights to CCC upon request. In the event CCC collects or settles the claim after the rights of the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor to the claim have been assigned CCC, CCC shall, except as shown below, pay to the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor the amount the agency or organization would have been entitled to retain had they collected the same amount. However, the additional 10 percent on amounts collected in excess of $200 will be payable only if CCC determines that reasonable efforts were made to collect the claim prior to the assignment, or if payment is deemed to be commensurate with the extra efforts exerted in further documenting claims. In addition, if CCC determines that the documentation requirements of paragraph (c)(1) have not been fulfilled and the lack of such documentation has not been justified to the satisfaction of CCC, CCC reserves the right to deny payment of all allowances to the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor.

(G) When nongovernmental cooperating sponsors fail to file claims, or permit claims to become time-barred, or fail to provide for the right of CCC to assert such claims, as provided in this ยง 211.9, and it is determined by CCC that such failure was due to the fault or negligence of the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor, the agency or organization shall be liable to the United States for the cost and freight (C&F) value of the commodities lost to the program.

(iii) If a cargo loss has been incurred on a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor shipment, and general average has been declared, the nongovernmental cooperating sponsor shall furnish to CCC with a duplicate copy to AID/W-

(A) Copies of booking confirmations and the applicable on-board bill(s) of lading,

(B) The related outturn or survey report(s),

(C) Evidence showing the amount of ocean transportation charges paid to the carrier(s), and

(D) An assignment to CCC of the cooperating sponsor's right to the claim(s) for such loss.

(iv) A.I.D. will initiate and prosecute claims against ocean carriers and defend claims by such carriers, arising from or relating to affreightment contracts booked by A.I.D. where the claims involve entitlement to freight and related costs from the U.S. Government. Proceeds of such claims received by A.I.D. shall be returned to CCC pursuant to agreed procedures.
