
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.9 Liability for loss damage or improper distribution of commodities.
##### Fault of others in country of distribution and in intermediate country.

(e)(1) In addition to survey and/or outturn reports to determine ocean carrier loss and damage, the cooperating sponsor shall, in the case of landlocked countries, arrange for an independent survey at the point of entry into the recipient country and to make a report as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. CCC will reimburse the cooperating sponsor for the costs of a survey as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(iv).

(2) If a cooperating sponsor acquires any right against a person or governmental or nongovernmental organization based on an event for which the person or organization is responsible that resulted in the damage, loss or misuse of any commodity, monetized proceeds or program income, the cooperating sponsor shall file a claim against the liable party or parties for the value of the commodities, monetized proceeds or program income lost damaged or misused and shall make every reasonable effort to collect the claim. A copy of the claim and related documents shall be provided to USAID or the Diplomatic Post. Cooperating sponsors who fail to file or pursue such claims shall be liable to A.I.D. for the value of the commodities or monetized proceeds or program income lost, damaged, or misused: Provided, however, that the cooperating sponsor may elect not to file a claim if the loss is less than $500 and such action is not detrimental to the program. Cooperating sponsors may retain $150 of any amount collected on an individual claim. In addition, cooperating sponsors may, with the written approval of USAID or the Diplomatic Post, retain either special costs such as reasonable legal fees that they have incurred in the collection of a claim, or pay such legal fees with monetized proceeds or program income. Any proposed settlement for less than the full amount of the claim must be approved by USAID or the Diplomatic Post prior to acceptance. When the cooperating sponsor has exhausted all reasonable attempts to collect a claim, it shall request USAID or the Diplomatic Post to provide further instructions in accordance with paragraph (e)(4).
