
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.9 Liability for loss damage or improper distribution of commodities.
##### Calculation of the amount of a claim against others.

(3)A claim is the right a cooperating sponsor has against a third party as a result of an event for which the third party is responsible that caused the loss, damage or misuse of commodities, monetized proceeds or program income. The amount of the claim is based on the value of the commodities, monetized proceeds or program income lost, damaged or misused as a result of the event. An individual claim may not be broken down artificially to enlarge the amount the cooperating sponsor may retain as an administrative allowance on collection of the claim. For example, if a cooperating sponsor has a contract with a carrier to transport commodities, and losses occur during a single shipment of commodities from points A to B, the cooperating sponsor has one claim against the carrier, and the amount of the claim will be based on the total value of the commodities lost during the shipment from A to B even though some of the loss might have occurred on each of several trucks or by subcontractors used by the carrier to satisfy its contract responsibility to transport the commodities.

(4) Reasonable attempts to collect the claim shall not be less than the follow-up of initial billings with three progressively stronger demands at not more than 30-day intervals. If these efforts fail to elicit a satisfactory response, legal action in the judicial system of the cooperating country should be pursued unless:

(i) Liability of the third party is not provable,

(ii) The cost of pursuing the claim would exceed the amount of the claim,

(iii) The third party would not have enough assets to satisfy the claim after a judicial decision favorable to the cooperating sponsor,

(iv) Maintaining legal action in the country's judicial system would seriously impair the cooperating sponsor's ability to conduct an effective program in the country, or

(v) It is inappropriate for reasons relating to the judiciary or judicial system of the country.

(5) As an alternative to legal action in the judicial system of the country with regard to claims against a public entity of the government of the cooperating country, the cooperating sponsor and the cooperating country may agree to settle disputed claims by an appropriate administrative procedure and/or arbitration. This alternative may be established in the Host Country Food for Peace Program Agreement required under ยง 211.3(b), or by a separate formal understanding, and must be submitted to USAID or the Diplomatic Post for review and approval. Resolution of disputed claims by any administrative procedure or arbitration agreed to by the cooperating sponsor and the cooperating country should be final and binding on the parties.
