
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 211.10 Records and reporting requirements.
##### Reports.

(b)Cooperating sponsors shall submit two copies of audits performed in accordance to ยง 211.5(c). In addition, cooperating sponsors shall submit to USAID or the Diplomatic Post, and to AID/W such reports as A.I.D. may reasonably request. The following is a list of the principal types of reports that are to be submitted at least annually:

(1) Periodic summary reports showing receipt, distribution, and inventory of commodities and proposed schedules of shipments or calls forward.

(2) Reports relating to the generation of monetized proceeds and program income and the use of such funds for purposes specified in the Operational Plan or TA. See ยง 211.5(l).

(3) Reports relating to progress and problems in the implementation of the program.

(4) Reports shall be submitted in sufficient detail to enable USAID or the Diplomatic Post to assess and to make recommendations as to the ability of the cooperating sponsors to effectively plan, manage, control and evaluate the Food for Peace programs under their administration.

(5) At the time that an emergency program under Public Law 480, title II is initiated, whether by a governmental or nongovernmental cooperating sponsor, USAID or the Diplomatic Post should

(i) Make a determination regarding the ability of the cooperating sponsor to perform the record-keeping required by this ยง 211.10, and

(ii) In those instances in which those specific record-keeping requirements cannot be followed, due to emergency circumstances, specify exactly which essential information will be recorded in order to account fully for title II commodities and monetized proceeds.
