
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### Appendix I to Part 211 - Operational Plan

In addition to any other requirement of law or regulation, the Operational Plan will include information outlined below to the extent it is applicable to the specific activity.

1. Program Goals.

Describe program goals and criteria for measuring progress toward reaching the goals. Each program should be designed to achieve measurable objectives within a specified period of time.

2. Program Description.

a. Describe the characteristics, extent and severity of problems that the program will address.

b. Provide a clear concise statement of specific objectives for each program and of criteria for measuring progress towards reaching the objectives. If there are several objectives, indicate priorities.

c. Describe the target population by program, including economic/nutrition-related characteristics, sufficiently to permit a determination of recipient eligibility for title II commodities. Describe the educational and employment characteristics of the target group, if relevant to program objectives; the rationale for selection of the target group, the rationale for the selection of the geographical areas where programs will be carried out; the calculation of coverage and the percent of total target population reached.

d. Describe the intervention including:
