
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 211 - TRANSFER OF FOOD COMMODITIES FOR FOOD USE IN DISASTER RELIEF, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE
#### Appendix I to Part 211 - Operational Plan
##### Voluntary agency regular programs.,i.e.

9.An Operational Plan is required for all regular,, non-emergency, title II nongovernmental cooperating sponsor programs as part of their program submission, along with the Annual Estimate of Requirements (AER), to USAID or the Diplomatic Post and AID/W. When new multi-year Operational Plans are required, they should be prepared and submitted in advance of the year in which they are to begin, in order to permit adequate time for substantive review and approval. In any event, nongovernmental cooperating sponsor Operational Plans should be submitted to AID/W no later than the Mission Action Plan covering the following fiscal year's program. Once an Operational Plan has been approved, only an updating will be required on an annual basis, unless there has been a significant change from the approved plan's program directives, methodology, design or magnitudes. Updates should be submitted each year for review with the AERs.

The response to emergency situations using title II resources does not usually permit the same degree of detail and certainty of analysis that is expected in planning title II non-emergency programs. However, Operational Plans are required for all nongovernmental cooperating sponsors' emergency programs, along with the AER. An Operational Plan for an emergency program must cover the same basic elements, set forth above, as for a nonemergency program. Thus, all of the above basic issues set forth in the Operational Plan format must be addressed when proposing title II emergency programs as well as regular nonemergency programs.

A USAID or Diplomatic Post is expected to comment on the substance and adequacy of a nongovernmental cooperating sponsor's Operational Plan when submitted to AID/W along with a program request, and to address the plan's relationship to and consistency with the Mission's Country Development Strategy Statement.

Cooperating sponsors agree not to deviate from the program as described in the Operational Plan and other program documents approved by A.I.D., without the prior written approval of A.I.D.

Any cooperating sponsor (governmental or nongovernmental) may initiate an emergency assistance proposal under Public Law 480, title II. Requests are received by a USAID or Diplomatic Post and reviewed and approved before forwarding to AID/W with appropriate recommendations.

a. Nongovernmental emergency program requests can be cabled by USAID or the Diplomatic Post for AID/W review based on information provided and using procedures established for regular programs as described in Regulation 11, ยง 211.5(a): AER and Operational Plan.

b. A foreign government or international organization (other than World Food Program) emergency request normally requires more Mission involvement in program design and management. However, as in the case of nongovernmental programs, the approval will be based on a cabled program summary based on the program plan outlined in (2) above. On approval, AID/W will prepare a Transfer Authorization (TA) to be signed by the recipient government specifying terms of the program and reporting requirements. Additional guidance in preparing government-to-government or international organizations emergency requests is in chapter 9 and Exhibit A of A.I.D. Handbook 9. The TA serves as (1) the Food for Peace Agreement between the U.S. Government and the cooperating sponsor, (2) the project authorization document, and (3) the authority for the CCC to ship commodities. (Under Pub. L. 480, section 207(a), not later than 15 days after receipt of a call forward from a field mission for commodities, the order shall be transmitted to the CCC.)

Detailed guidance for preparing, approving, implementing and administering these programs is provided in chapters 6, 7, and 11 of A.I.D. Handbook 9.

Describe the problems that can be anticipated in implementing the program in the recipient country as a result of its being a developing country.

A cooperating sponsor should provide a justification for the waiver of any specific section or sections of Regulation 11 that it believes necessary for the program.
