
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 212 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
#### Subpart J - Fees
##### ยง 212.14 Fees to be charged - general.
###### Advance payments.,i.e.,

(i)(1) For requests other than those described in paragraph (i)(2) or (3) of this section, the component's FOIA office shall not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(2) When the component's FOIA office determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. The component's FOIA office may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to the component's FOIA office within 30 calendar days of the billing date, the component's FOIA office may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and the component's FOIA office may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the component's FOIA office begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If the component's FOIA office has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.

(4) In cases in which the component's FOIA office requires advance payment, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the component FOIA office's fee determination, the request will be closed.
