
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 212 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
#### Subpart M - Privacy Act Provisions
##### ยง 212.23 Appeals from denials of PA amendment requests.

(a) If the component's FOIA office denies a request for amendment of such records, the requester shall be informed of the reason for the denial and of the right to appeal the denial to the Appeals Review Panel. Any such appeal must be postmarked within 60 working days of the date of the component FOIA office's denial letter and sent to: Appeals Officer, Bureau for Management, Office of Management Services (for non-OIG records), and Deputy Inspector General, Office of Inspector General (for OIG records) at the addresses given in ยง 212.11.

(b) Appellants should submit an administrative appeal of any denial, in whole or in part, of a request for access to the PA at the above address. The component's FOIA office will assign a tracking number to the appeal.

(c) The Appeals Review Panel will decide appeals from denials of PA amendment requests within 30 business days, unless the Panel extends that period for good cause shown, from the date when it is received by the Panel.

(d) Appeals Review Panel decisions will be made in writing, and appellants will receive notification of the decision. A reversal will result in reprocessing of the request in accordance with that decision. An affirmance will include a brief statement of the reason for the affirmance and will inform the appellant that the decision of the Panel represents the final decision of the Agency and of the right to seek judicial review of the Panel's decision, when applicable.

(e) If the Panel's decision is that a record shall be amended in accordance with the appellant's request, the Chairman-USAID'S FOIA Liaison Officer or their designee shall direct the office responsible for the record to amend the record, advise all previous recipients of the record of the amendment and its substance (if an accounting of previous disclosures has been made), and so advise the individual in writing.

(f) If the Panel's decision is that the amendment request is denied, in addition to the notification required by paragraph (d) of this section, the Chairman-USAID'S FOIA Liaison Officer or their designee-shall advise the appellant:

(1) Of the right to file a concise Statement of Disagreement stating the reasons for disagreement with the decision of the Agency;

(2) Of the procedures for filing the Statement of Disagreement;

(3) That any Statement of Disagreement that is filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with, at the discretion of the Agency, a brief statement by the component's FOIA office summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record;

(4) That prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of any statement of disagreement, to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained.

(g) If the appellant files a Statement of Disagreement under paragraph (f) of this section, the component's FOIA office will clearly annotate the record so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent to anyone who may subsequently access the record. When the disputed record is subsequently disclosed, the component's FOIA office will note the dispute and provide a copy of the Statement of Disagreement. The component's FOIA office may also include a brief summary of the reasons for not amending the record. Copies of the component FOIA office's statement shall be treated as part of the individual's record for granting access; however, it will not be subject to amendment by an individual under this part.
