
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Collection Actions
##### § 213.9 Agency review requirements.

(a) For purposes of this section, whenever USAID must afford a debtor a review within the Agency, USAID shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for a review when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt in question. The review may include the examination of documents, internal discussions with relevant officials, and discussion by letter or orally with the debtor, at USAID's discretion. For the offset of current Federal salary under 5 U.S.C. 5514 for certain debts, an employee may request an outside hearing. See §§ 213.21 and 213.22 when USAID is the creditor Agency.

(b) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although USAID will carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.

(c) This section does not require an oral hearing with respect to debt collection in which the agency has determined that review of the written record is an adequate means to correct a prior mistake.

(d) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, USAID shall accord the debtor a "paper hearing," that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.

(e) If, after review, USAID either sustains or amends its determination, it shall notify the debtor of its intent to collect the sustained or amended debt. The notification to collect the sustained or amended debt will include accrued interest on the sustained or amended debt, calculated from the date of delinquency. If USAID has suspended collection actions previously, it will reinstitute them unless it receives payment of the sustained or amended amount, or the debtor has made a proposal for a payment plan to which the Agency agrees, by the date specified in the notification of USAID's decision.
