
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Collection Actions
##### ยง 213.11 Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
###### Interest.

(a)USAID will assess interest on all delinquent debts unless prohibited by statute, regulation or contract.

(1) Interest begins to accrue on all delinquent debts starting from the day after the payment due date established in the initial written demand-for payment notice to the debtor. USAID will assess an annual rate of interest that is equal to the U.S. Department of the Treasury Current Value of Funds Rate (CVFR) unless a different rate is necessary to protect the interest of the Federal Government. USAID will notify the debtor of the basis for its finding that a different rate is necessary to protect the interest of the Government.

(2) The rate of interest, as initially assessed, remains fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. If a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement, interest may be set at the Treasury rate in effect on the date a new agreement is executed.

(3) Interest will not be assessed on interest charges, administrative costs or late payment penalties. However, where a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement and interest, administrative costs and penalties charges have been waived under the defaulted agreement, these charges can be reinstated and added to the debt principal under any new agreement and interest charged on the entire amount of the debt.
