
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Collection Actions
##### ยง 213.13 Waivers of indebtedness.
###### Waiver authorities,Debts that arise out of erroneous payments of pay and allowances, and of travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances.

(a)-(1)Title 5 U.S.C. 5584 provides the authority for waiving, in whole or in part, debts that arise out of erroneous payments of pay or allowances, travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances to an employee of USAID, if collection would be against equity and good conscience, or not in the best interests of the United States:

(i) The CFO may not grant a waiver if there exists in connection with the claim an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person who has an interest in obtaining a waiver.

(ii) Fault is considered to exist if, in light of the circumstances, the employee knew, or should have known through the exercise of due diligence, that an error existed, but he or she failed to take corrective action. What an employee should have known is evaluated under a reasonable-person standard. However, employees are expected to have a general understanding of the Federal pay system applicable to them.

(iii) An employee with notice that a payment might be erroneous is expected to make provisions for eventual repayment. Financial hardship is not a basis for granting a waiver for an employee who was on notice of an erroneous payment.

(iv) If the deciding official finds no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person who has an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, the employee is not automatically entitled to a waiver. Before granting a waiver, the deciding official also must determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience, or not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining if collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience, or not in the best interests of the United States, include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) Whether collection of the claim would cause serious financial hardship to the employee from whom the Agency seeks collection;

(B) Whether, because of the erroneous payment, the employee either has relinquished a valuable right or changed positions for the worse, regardless of his or her financial circumstances;

(C) The time elapsed between the erroneous payment and the discovery of the error and notification of the employee;

(D) Whether failure to make restitution would result in unfair gain to the employee; and

(E) Whether recovery of the claim would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
