
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Collection Actions
##### ยง 213.19 Installment payments.

(a) Whenever feasible, and except as otherwise provided by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties and administrative costs, as required by ยง 213.11, will be collected in a single payment. However, where the CFO determines that a debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in a single payment or that an alternative payment mechanism is in the best interest of the United States, the CFO may approve repayment of the debt in installments. The debtor has the burden of establishing that it is financially unable to pay the debt in a single payment or that an alternative payment mechanism is warranted. If the CFO agrees to accept payment by installments, the CFO may require a debtor to execute a written agreement which specifies all the terms of the repayment arrangement and which contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default. The size and frequency of installment payments will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. The installment payments will be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in not more than 3 years, unless the CFO determines that a longer period is required. Installment payments of less than $50 per month generally will not be accepted, but may be accepted where the debtor's financial or other circumstances justify.

(b) If a debtor owes more than one debt and designates how a voluntary installment payment is to be applied among the debts, that designation will be approved if the CFO determines that the designation is in the best interest of the United States. If the debtor does not designate how the payment is to be applied, the CFO will apply the payment to the various debts in accordance with the best interest of the United States, paying special attention to applicable statutes of limitations.
