
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - Administrative and Salary Offset
##### ยง 213.20 Administrative offset of non-employee debts.
###### Standards.

(a)(1) The CFO collects debts by administrative offset only after USAID has sent the debtor a written demand-for-payment notice that outlines the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the Agency to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and explaining the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716.

(2) Offsets may be initiated only after the debtor has been given:

(i) The opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt;

(ii) The opportunity for a review within USAID of the Agency's decision related to the claim(s); and

(iii) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.

(3) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section may be omitted when:

(i) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;

(ii) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in Cecile Industries, Inc. v. Cheney, 995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or

(iii) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (g) of this section, USAID first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, USAID shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the USAID.

(4) When USAID previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, USAID need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.
