
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 213 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - Administrative and Salary Offset
##### ยง 213.20 Administrative offset of non-employee debts.
###### Non-centralized administrative offset.

(f)(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that creditor agencies conduct, at the agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor Agency may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt.

(2) Before requesting a payment authorizing agency to conduct a non-centralized administrative offset, USAID's regulations provides that such offsets may occur only after:

(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section; and

(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from the creditor Agency that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor Agency has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.

(3) USAID as a payment authorizing agency will comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to USAID's program, or would otherwise be contrary to law.

(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, USAID will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
