
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 214 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart D - Operation of Advisory Committees
##### ยง 214.33 Notice of meetings.

(a) Notice of each advisory committee meeting (whether the meeting is open or closed) shall be published in theat least fifteen (15) days before the date of the meeting, and should also be provided through other means such as newspaper advertisements, press releases, and direct mail.

(1) Exceptions to the requirement for public notice are granted only for reasons of national security as determined by the Director, OMB and are requested and justified by the Administrator, A.I.D. at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting.

(2) Exceptions to the fifteen (15) day advance publication requirement are granted in emergency situations as determined by the Administrator, A.I.D. In such situations, the facts on which exception is based are to be included in the Notice of the meeting.

(3) Requests for exceptions under paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section are prepared by the Advisory Committee Representative and are cleared by the Advisory Committee Management Officer and the General Counsel prior to submission to the Administrator.

(b) Notices include the name of the advisory committee; the time of the meeting; the purposes of the meeting; a statement regarding the extent to which the public will be permitted to attend and, if any portion is closed, why such closure or partial closure is necessary, including citation of the appropriate exemption permitted under subsection (c) of 5 U.S.C. 552b. Thus, A.I.D. Notices of Advisory Committee meetings normally state that the meeting is open to the public and include the place of the meeting; and instructions for gaining access to open meetings which are held in a "secured" building.

(c) Both formal and informal notices are prepared by the A.I.D. Advisory Committee Representative; formal notices to be published in theare cleared with the Advisory Committee Management Officer and are sent to the Office of the General Counsel at least thirty-two (32) days before the scheduled meeting date.

(d) Copies of all public notices are provided to the Advisory Committee Management Officer.
