
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 214 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart D - Operation of Advisory Committees
##### ยง 214.34 Public participation.

(a) Each advisory committee meeting is to be open to the public except where:

(1) The Director, OMB, has determined that public notice of a meeting would be inconsistent with national security; or

(2) The Administrator, AID, has formally determined that a meeting, or portion of a meeting may be closed to the public in accordance with subsection (c) of section 552b of title 5, United States Code.

(b) Advisory committee requests to close all or part of a meeting or a series of meetings are to include the reasons for proposed closure, citing specific exceptions involved under subsection (c) of section 552b of Title 5, United States Code. Such requests are submitted by the AID Advisory Committee Representative, through the Advisory Committee Management Officer and the General Counsel to the Administrator at least forty (40) days before the scheduled date of the meeting.

(c) The Administrator's determination is to be in writing and is to contain a brief statement of the reasons for closing the meeting (or portion thereof). The determination itself is to be made available to the public on request.

(d) When all or part of an advisory committee meeting is closed and detailed minutes are not to be made available in their entirety to the public, the Committee shall prepare and make available to the public within thirty (30) days of the close of the meeting a summary of its activities and related matters which are informative to the public consistent with the policy of 5 U.S.C. 552(b). Notice of availability of such a summary shall be incorporated in the notice of the meeting published in the

(e) To facilitate public participation in advisory committee meetings which are to be open or partially open to the public:

(1) Meetings are to be held at a reasonable time and at a place that is accessible to members of the public.

(2) The size of the meeting room is to be large enough to accommodate the Advisory Committee, its staff, and those members of the public who might be expected to attend.

(3) Any member of the public is permitted to file a written statement with the committee, before or after the meeting.

(4) Interested persons may be permitted to present oral statements at the meeting in accordance with procedures established by the committee, and to the extent time available for the meeting permits.

(5) Other participation by members of the public is not permitted, except in accordance with procedures established by the committee.
