
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 216 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
#### ยง 216.3 Procedures.
##### General procedures,Preparation of the Initial Environmental Examination.

(a)-(1)Except as otherwise provided, an Initial Environmental Examination is not required for activities identified in ยง 216.2(b)(1), (c) (2), and (d). For all other A.I.D. activities described in ยง 216.2(a) an Initial Environmental Examination will be prepared by the originator of an action. Except as indicated in this section, it should be prepared with the PID or PAIP. For projects including the procurement or use of pesticides, the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section will be followed, in addition to the procedures in this paragraph. Activities which cannot be identified in sufficient detail to permit the completion of an Initial Environmental Examination with the PID or PAIP, shall be described by including with the PID or PAIP: (i) An explanation indicating why the Initial Environmental Examination cannot be completed; (ii) an estimate of the amount of time required to complete the Initial Environmental Examination; and (iii) a recommendation that a Threshold Decision be deferred until the Initial Environmental Examination is completed. The responsible Assistant Administrator will act on the request for deferral concurrently with action on the PID or PAIP and will designate a time for completion of the Initial Environmental Examination. In all instances, except as provided in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, this completion date will be in sufficient time to allow for the completion of an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement, if required, before a final decision is made to provide A.I.D. funding for the action.
