
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 216 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
#### ยง 216.3 Procedures.
##### Threshold decision.

(2)(i) The Initial Environmental Examination will include a Threshold Decision made by the officer in the originating office who signs the PID or PAIP. If the Initial Environmental Examination is completed prior to or at the same time as the PID or PAIP, the Threshold Decision will be reviewed by the Bureau Environmental Officer concurrently with approval of the PID or PAIP. The Bureau Environmental Officer will either concur in the Threshold Decision or request reconsideration by the officer who made the Threshold Decision, stating the reasons for the request. Differences of opinion between these officers shall be submitted for resolution to the Assistant Administrator at the same time that the PID is submitted for approval.

(ii) An Initial Environmental Examination, completed subsequent to approval of the PID or PAIP, will be forwarded immediately together with the Threshold Determination to the Bureau Environmental Officer for action as described in this section.

(iii) A Positive Threshold Decision shall result from a finding that the proposed action will have a significant effect on the environment. An Environmental Impact Statement shall be prepared if required pursuant to ยง 216.7. If an impact statement is not required, an Environmental Assessment will be prepared in accordance with ยง 216.6. The cognizant Bureau or Office will record a Negative Determination if the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the environment.
