
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter D - Claims and Stolen Property
#### PART 34 - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart B - Collection Actions
###### ยง 34.10 Collection methods.
####### Administrative offset.

(a)(1) Payments otherwise due the debtor from the United States shall be offset from the debt in accordance with 31 CFR 901.3. These may be funds under the control of the Department of State or other Federal agencies. Collection may be made through centralized offset by the Financial Management Service ("FMS") of the Department of the Treasury.

(2) Such payments include but are not limited to vendor payments, salary, retirement, lump sum payments due upon Federal employment separation, travel reimbursements, tax refunds, loans or other assistance. For offset of Federal salary payments under 5 U.S.C. 5514 for certain types of debt see subpart C of this part.

(3) Administrative offset under this subsection does not apply to debts specified in the FCCS, 31 CFR 901.3(a)(2).

(4) Before administrative offset is instituted by another Federal agency or the FMS, STATE shall certify in writing to that entity that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that STATE has complied with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal law and regulations.

(5) Administrative offset of anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund will be requested by STATE pursuant to 5 CFR 831.1801-1808.
