
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 5 - ORGANIZATION
##### ยง 5.2 Central and field organization.
###### et seq.

(a) The central organization of the Department of State is prescribed by the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended (Pub. L. 84-885), codified at 22 U.S.C. 2651and the Foreign Affairs Manual (see ยง 5.5).

(b) As used in this part, the term "Department of State" includes all offices within the Department in Washington, its domestic field offices in the United States, all U.S. diplomatic and consular posts throughout the world, and U.S. missions to international organizations unless otherwise specified.

(c) Any person desiring information concerning a matter handled by the Department of State, or any person desiring to make a submittal or request in connection with such a matter, should communicate either orally or in writing with the appropriate office. If the office receiving the communication does not have jurisdiction to handle the matter, the communication, if written, will be forwarded to the proper office, or, if oral, the person will be advised how to proceed. When the submittal or request from a member of the public consists of a formal application for one of the documents, privileges, or other benefits provided for in the laws administered by the Department of State, or in the regulations implementing these laws, the member of the public should follow the instructions on the form as to preparation and place of submission.

(d) From time to time, the Secretary of State will, to the extent authorized by law, delegate statutory or other authorities to subordinate officers, as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2651a(a)(4). The Department will generally publish such delegations of authority in the.
