
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter D - Claims and Stolen Property
#### PART 34 - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 34.14 Request for an outside hearing for certain debts.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an employee must file a request that is received by STATE not later than 30 calendar days from the date of STATE's notice described in ยง 34.13 if an employee wants an outside hearing pursuant to ยง 34.13(g)(2) concerning:

(1) The existence or amount of the debt; or

(2) STATE's proposed offset schedule.

(b) The request must be signed by the employee and should identify and explain with reasonable specificity and brevity the facts, evidence and witnesses which the employee believes support his or her position. If the employee objects to the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted from each check, the request should state the objection and the reasons for it.

(c) The employee must also specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.

(d) If the employee files a request for an outside hearing later than the required 30 calendar days as described in paragraph (a) of this section, STATE may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee has actual notice of the filing deadline).

(e) An employee waives the right to an outside hearing and will have his or her pay offset if the employee fails to file a petition for a hearing as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
