
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 228 - RULES FOR PROCUREMENT OF COMMODITIES AND SERVICES FINANCED BY USAID
#### Subpart B - Conditions Governing Source and Nationality of Commodity and Service Procurement Transactions for USAID Financing
##### ยง 228.19 Special source rules requiring United States manufacture or procurement.

(a) Certain agricultural commodities and products thereof must be procured in the United States if the domestic price is less than parity, unless the commodity cannot reasonably be procured in the United States in fulfillment of the objectives of a particular assistance program under which such commodity procurement is to be financed. (22 U.S.C. 2354). USAID maintains a list of restricted agricultural commodities and related policies, which is available in USAID's Automated Directives System, ADS 312.

(b) Motor vehicles must be manufactured in the United States to be eligible for USAID financing (22 U.S.C. 2396). Any vehicle to be financed by USAID under a long-term lease or where the sale is to be guaranteed by USAID must be manufactured in the United States. However, financing of transportation or driver services from an individual or commercial entity and not directly financing the purchase or lease of a vehicle, is subject to the requirements at ยง 228.12. Financing transportation or driver services means:

(1) The vehicle is independently owned or leased by the hired driver or company;

(2) The vehicle will be maintained by the individual or commercial entity and driven only by the hired driver(s); and

(3) The vehicle is not directly leased, either as a separate line item in the contract separate from the cost of the driver's services, or under a separate contract.

(c) Under section 606(c) of the FAA, USAID cannot finance any pharmaceutical product that is manufactured outside of the United States if the pharmaceutical is covered by a valid U.S. patent, unless the U.S. patent holder expressly authorizes the manufacture of the pharmaceutical. Without such express authorization, the pharmaceutical must be purchased from the U.S. patent holder. In addition, USAID shall not finance non-contraceptive pharmaceuticals without prior written approval as provided in USAID's Automated Directives System Chapter 312. Contraceptives may be financed in accordance with the procedures in ADS 312.
