
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter D - Claims and Stolen Property
#### PART 34 - DEBT COLLECTION
##### Subpart D - Collection Adjustments
###### ยง 34.18 Waivers of indebtedness.
####### Authorities,Debts arising out of erroneous payments of pay and allowances.

(b)-(1)5 U.S.C. 5584 provides authority for waiving in whole or in part debts arising out of erroneous payments of pay and allowances, and travel, transportation and relocation expenses and allowances, if collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States.

(i) Waiver may not be granted if there exists in connection with the claim an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver.

(ii) Fault is considered to exist if in light of the circumstances the employee knew or should have known through the exercise of due diligence that an error existed but failed to take corrective action. What an employee should have known is evaluated under a reasonable person standard. Employees are, however, expected to have a general understanding of the Federal pay system applicable to them.

(iii) An employee with notice that a payment may be erroneous is expected to make provisions for eventual repayment. Financial hardship is not a basis for granting a waiver for an employee who was on notice of an erroneous payment.

(iv) If the deciding official finds no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, the employee is not automatically entitled to a waiver. Before a waiver can be granted, the deciding official must also determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining if collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States include, but are not limited to:

(A) Whether collection of the claim would cause serious financial hardship to the employee from whom collection is sought.

(B) Whether, because of the erroneous payment, the employee either has relinquished a valuable right or changed positions for the worse, regardless of the employee's financial circumstances.

(C) The time elapsed between the erroneous payment and discovery of the error and notification of the employee;

(D) Whether failure to make restitution would result in unfair gain to the employee;

(E) Whether recovery of the claim would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
