
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 233 - HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN LOAN GUARANTEES ISSUED UNDER THE FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2013, DIV. F, PUB. L. 113-6 - STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
#### ยง 233.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the regulations in this part is to prescribe the procedures and standard terms and conditions applicable to loan guarantees issued for the benefit of the Borrower, pursuant to Title III of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012, (Div. I, Pub. L. 112-74) as applied to fiscal year 2013 funding by section 1706(j) of the Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013, (Div. F, Pub. L. 113-6). The loan guarantees will be issued as provided herein pursuant to the Loan Guarantee Agreement, dated August 14, 2013, between the United States of America and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the "Loan Guarantee Agreement"). The loan guarantee will apply to sums borrowed during a period beginning on the date that the Loan Guarantee Agreement enters into force and ending thirty days after such date, not exceeding an aggregate total of one billion, two hundred and fifty million United States Dollars ($1,250,000,000) in principal amount. The loan guarantees shall insure the Borrower's repayment of 100% of principal and interest due under such loans. The full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged for the full payment and performance of such guarantee obligations.
