
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter II - Agency for International Development
### PART 237 - UKRAINE LOAN GUARANTEES ISSUED UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT OF 2015, AND THE SUPPORT FOR THE SOVEREIGNTY, INTEGRITY, DEMOCRACY, AND ECONOMIC STABILITY OF UKRAINE ACT OF 2014 - STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
#### ยง 237.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the regulations in this part is to prescribe the procedures and standard terms and conditions applicable to loan guarantees issued for the benefit of the Borrower, pursuant to Title III of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (Div. J, Pub. L. 113-235) and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-95). The loan guarantees will be issued as provided herein pursuant to a Loan Guarantee Agreement to be signed in April 2015, between the United States of America and Ukraine (the "Loan Guarantee Agreement"). The loan guarantee will apply to sums borrowed during a period beginning on the date that the Loan Guarantee Agreement enters into force and ending thirty days after such date, not exceeding an aggregate total of one billion United States Dollars ($1,000,000,000) in principal amount. The loan guarantees shall ensure the Borrower's repayment of 100% of principal and interest due under such borrowings. The full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged for the full payment and performance of such guarantee obligations.
