
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter I - Department of State
### Subchapter D - Claims and Stolen Property
#### PART 35 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
##### ยง 35.3 Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
###### Statements.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a written statement that-

(i) The person knows or has reason to know-

(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or

(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statment has a duty to include in such statement; and

(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,508 for each such statement.

(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.

(3) A statement shall be considered made to the authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority.

(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.

(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.

(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.

(f) The maximum penalty for each false claim or statement is $13,508, up to a maximum of $405,270.
