
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 303 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 303.8 Requests for records.
##### Requests.,foia@peacecorps.gov.,www.peacecorps.gov

(b)Requests for records under this section shall be made in writing via regular mail, email, facsimile, or online web portal and, as applicable, the envelope and the letter or other form of request should be clearly marked "Freedom of Information Request." All requests shall be addressed to the FOIA Officer. Requests by letter shall use the address given in ยง 303.5(a). Requests by email must be sent to the FOIA electronic mailbox,Regarding requests submitted via online web portal (accessible on the agency Web site,), requesters shall fill in all of the fields as required. Any request not marked and addressed as specified in this paragraph will be so marked by Peace Corps personnel as soon as the request is properly identified. The request will be forwarded immediately to the FOIA Officer. A request improperly addressed will not be deemed to have been received for purposes of the time period set out in paragraph (h) of this section until it has been received by the FOIA Officer. Upon receipt of an improperly addressed request, the FOIA Officer shall notify the requester of the date on which the time period began. Requests by letter shall be stamped "received" on the date received by the FOIA Office. Requests by email shall be "received" on the date the email arrived, if a business day, or on the next business day. Requests by online web portal will be entered automatically in the FOIA tracking system. Requests sent via mail or email will be entered manually in the FOIA tracking system. Requesters may utilize the online web portal for purpose of checking status of requests (open/closed) for requests from all sources.

(c) A request must reasonably describe the records requested so that employees of the Peace Corps who are familiar with the subject area of the request are able, with a reasonable amount of effort, to determine which particular records are within the scope of the request. If it is determined that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the requester shall be so informed and provided an opportunity to confer with Peace Corps personnel in order to attempt to reformulate the request in a manner that will meet the needs of the requester and the requirements of this paragraph (c). If the Agency cannot identify the requested records after a 2 hour search, it may determine that the records were not adequately described and ask the requester to provide a more specific request.

(d) To facilitate the location of records by the Peace Corps, a requester should try to provide the following kinds of information, if known;

(1) The specific event or action to which the record refers;

(2) The unit or program of the Peace Corps which may be responsible for or may have produced the record;

(3) The date of the record or the date or period to which it refers or relates;

(4) The type of record, such as an application, a particular form, a contract, or a report;

(5) Personnel of the Peace Corps who may have prepared or have knowledge of the record; or

(6) Citations to newspapers or publications which have referred to the record.

(e) The Peace Corps is not required to create a record or to perform research to satisfy a request.

(f) Any request for a waiver or reduction of fees should be included in the FOIA request, and any such request should indicate the grounds for a waiver or reduction of fees, as set out in ยง 303.13(f). The Peace Corps shall respond to such request as promptly as possible.
