
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 303 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 303.14 Procedures for responding to a subpoena.
##### Purpose and scope.

(a)(1) This part sets forth the procedures to be followed in proceedings in which the Peace Corps is not a party, whenever a subpoena, order or other demand (collectively referred to as a "demand") of a court or other authority is issued for:

(i) The production or disclosure of any material contained in the files of the Agency;

(ii) The production or disclosure of any information relating to material contained in the files of the Agency;

(iii) The production or disclosure of any information or material acquired by any person while such person was an employee of the Agency as a part of the performance of his official duties or because of his official status, or

(iv) The production of an employee of the Agency for the deposition or an appearance as a witness in a legal action or proceeding.

(2) For purposes of this part, the term "employee of the Agency" includes all officers and employees of the Agency appointed by, or subject to the supervision, jurisdiction or control of, the director of the Agency, including personal services contractors. Also for purposes of this part, records of the Agency do not include records of the Office of Inspector General.

(3) This part is intended to provide instructions regarding the internal operations of the Agency, and is not intended, and does not and may not be relied upon, to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the Agency.

(4) This part applies to:

(i) State and local court, administrative and legislative proceedings; and

(ii) Federal court and administrative proceedings.

(5) This part does not apply to:

(i) Congressional requests or subpoenas for testimony or documents;

(ii) Employees or former employees making appearances solely in their private capacity in legal or administrative proceedings that do not relate to the Agency (such as cases arising out of traffic accidents or domestic relations). Any question regarding whether the appearance relates solely to the employee's or former employee's private capacity should be referred to the Office of the General Counsel.

(6) Nothing in this part otherwise permits disclosure of information by the Agency except as is provided by statute or other applicable law.
