
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 305 - ELIGIBILITY AND STANDARDS FOR PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER SERVICE
#### ยง 305.4 Medical status eligibility standard.
##### Requirements.

(a)Under the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2504(e)), the Peace Corps is responsible for ensuring that Peace Corps Volunteers receive all necessary or appropriate health care during their service. To ensure that the Peace Corps will be capable of doing so, Applicants must be medically qualified for Peace Corps Volunteer service. An Applicant who is otherwise qualified must meet the following requirements:

(1) The Applicant, with or without reasonable accommodation, removal of architectural, communication or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids or services, must have the physical and mental capacity required to meet the essential eligibility requirements for a Volunteer. In this context, the essential eligibility requirements for a Volunteer include, without limitation, the capability to:

(i) Live and work independently in an isolated location overseas at the same socio-economic level and in similar conditions as members of the community to which the Applicant is assigned;

(ii) Perform the job to which the Applicant is assigned; and

(iii) Complete a specified tour of service without undue disruption.

(2) The Peace Corps must be capable of providing the Applicant with such health care as the Peace Corps deems to be necessary or appropriate.

(3) The Applicant must not pose a direct threat (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section).
