
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 305 - ELIGIBILITY AND STANDARDS FOR PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER SERVICE
#### ยง 305.6 Applicants with an intelligence background.
##### Relationship to intelligence agency or activity.

(d)(1) An Applicant whose background discloses a relationship to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity may be ineligible to serve as a Peace Corps Volunteer. The term "relationship" means any association with an intelligence agency or with an intelligence activity, if such association could be the basis for an inference or the appearance that an Applicant was engaged in an intelligence activity. The association could include, but not be limited to, one based upon a familial, personal or financial connection to an intelligence agency or with an intelligence activity.

(2) Determinations of the eligibility or periods of ineligibility of such Applicants will be made by the General Counsel on a case by case basis using the criteria set forth below. Examples of the type of relationships among others that could lead to ineligibility are Applicants whose spouses, domestic partners, or parents are or were involved in actual intelligence activities, or members of the immediate family of prominent highly placed officials in an intelligence agency who might be the target of harassment or violence overseas as the result of family connections. Employment by an organization that has been funded by an intelligence agency may also lead to ineligibility.

(3) In determining whether an Applicant's relationship to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity makes the Applicant ineligible for service, or in determining the duration of any ineligibility, the General Counsel will consider the following factors as appropriate:

(i) Nature of the relationship.

(ii) The intelligence agency with which the Applicant has the relationship.

(iii) Duration of the relationship.

(iv) Length of time that has elapsed since the last connection to the intelligence agency.

(v) Where the intelligence activity or work was performed.

(vi) Nature of the connection with intelligence activity or work.

(vii) Whether or not the intelligence activity or work involved contact with foreign nationals.

(viii) Whether the connection was known or unknown to the Applicant at the time it occurred.

(ix) Training received, if any.

(x) Regularity of the contact with foreign nationals, and nature of duties, if any.

(xi) Public knowledge of the activity or connection.

(xii) Any other information which bears on the relationship of the Applicant to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity.
