
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 306 - VOLUNTEER DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
#### Subpart B - Processing Individual Complaints of Discrimination
##### ยง 306.10 Corrective action.

When the agency's FAD states that the aggrieved party has been subjected to prohibited discrimination, the following corrective actions may be taken:

(a) Selection as a trainee for an otherwise qualified complainant found to have been denied selection based on prohibited discrimination.

(b) Reinstatement to volunteer service for a complainant found to have been early-terminated as a result of prohibited discrimination. To the extent possible, a terminated volunteer will be placed in the same position previously held. However, reinstatement to the specific country of prior service, or to the specific position previously held is contingent on programmatic considerations, including but not limited to the continued availability of the position or program in that country, and acceptance by the host country of such placement. If the same position is deemed to be no longer available, the aggrieved party will be offered reenrollment in a position in as similar as possible circumstances to the position previously held, or will be given interrupted service status. A reenrollment may require a medical clearance and/or other clearances, and both additional training and an additional two year commitment to Volunteer service.

(c) Such other relief as may be deemed appropriate by the Peace Corps.
