
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.4 Disclosure of records.
##### Provided,

(g) To an agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within the control of the United States for civil or criminal law enforcement activities, if the activity is authorized by law, and the head of any such agency or instrumentality has made a written request for such records specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought. Such a record may also be disclosed by the agency to the law enforcement agency on its own initiative in situations in which criminal conduct is suspected:That such disclosure has been established as a routine use or in situations in which the misconduct is directly related to the purpose for which the record is maintained.

(h) In emergency situations upon a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual provided that after such disclosure, notification of such disclosure must be promptly sent to the last known address of the individual to whom the record pertains.

(i) To either House of Congress or to a subcommittee or committee (joint or of either house) to the extent the subject matter falls within their jurisdiction.

(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office.

(k) Pursuant to an order by the presiding judge of a court of competent jurisdiction. If any record is disclosed under such compulsory legal process and subsequently made public by the court which issued it, the agency must make a reasonable effort to notify the individual to whom the record pertains of such disclosure.

(l) To consumer reporting agencies as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3) in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, and under contracts for collection services as authorized in 31 U.S.C. 3718.
