
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.10 Security of records systems - manual and automated.
##### Manual systems.

(a)(1) Records contained in records systems as defined herein may be used, held or stored only where facilities are adequate to prevent unauthorized access by persons within or without the agency.

(2) All records systems when not under the personal control of the employees authorized to use same must be stored in an appropriate metal filing cabinet. Where appropriate, such cabinet shall have a three position dial-type combination lock, and/or be equipped with a steel lock bar secured by a GSA approved changeable combination padlock or in some such other securely locked cabinet as may be approved by GSA for the storage of such records. Certain systems are not of such confidential nature that their disclosure would harm an individual who is the subject of such record. Records in this category shall be maintained in steel cabinets without the necessity of combination locks.

(3) Access to and use of systems of records shall be permitted only to persons whose official duties require such access within the agency, for routine use as defined in ยง 308.4 and in the Peace Corps' published systems of records notices, or for such other uses as may be provided herein.

(4) Other than for access within the agency to persons needing such records in the performance of their official duties or routine uses as defined herein and in the Peace Corps' systems of records notices or such other uses as provided herein, access to records within systems of records shall be permitted only to the individual to whom the record pertains or upon his or her written request to a designated personal representative.

(5) Access to areas where records systems are stored will be limited to those persons whose official duties require work in such areas and proper accounting of removal of any records from storage areas shall be maintained at all times in the form directed by the Director, Administrative Services.

(6) The agency shall assure that all persons whose official duties require access to and use of records contained in records systems are adequately trained to protect the security and privacy of such records.

(7) The disposal and destruction of records within records systems shall be in accord with rules promulgated by the General Services Administration.
