
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.10 Security of records systems - manual and automated.
##### Automated systems.

(b)(1) Identifiable personal information may be processed, stored or maintained by automatic data systems only where facilities or conditions are adequate to prevent unauthorized access to such systems in any form. Whenever such data contained in punch cards, magnetic tapes or discs are not under the personal control of an authorized person such information must be stored in a metal filing cabinet having a built-in three position combination lock, a metal filing cabinet equipped with a steel lock, a metal filing cabinet equipped with a steel lock bar secured with a General Services Administration (GSA) approved combination padlock, or in adequate containers or in a secured room or in such other facility having greater safeguards than those provided for herein.

(2) Access to and use of identifiable personal data associated with automated data systems shall be limited to those persons whose official duties require such access. Proper control of personal data in any form associated with automated data systems shall be maintained at all times including maintenance of accountability records showing disposition of input and output documents.

(3) All persons whose official duties require access to processing and maintenance of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be adequately trained in the security and privacy of personal data.

(4) The disposal and disposition of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be carried on by shredding, burning or in the case of tapes of discs, degaussing, in accord with any regulations now or hereafter proposed by the GSA or other appropriate authority.
