
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.14 Specific exemptions.
##### Provided, however,

(c) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualification for service as an employee or volunteer or for the obtaining of a Federal contract or for access to classified information:That such material shall be disclosed to the extent possible without revealing the identity of a source who furnished information to the government under an express promise of the confidentiality of his or her identity or, prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise of such confidentiality of identity. Agency systems of records containing such material are: Contractors and Consultant Files; Discrimination Complaint Files; Legal Files-Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Personal Service Contract Records-Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION Staff; Staff Applicant and Personnel Records; Talent Bank; Volunteer Applicant and Service Record Systems.

(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)

(2) Reasons: To ensure the frankness of information used to determine whether Peace Corps Volunteers applicants and Peace Corps Staff applicants are qualified for service with the agency.

(d) Records in the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records are exempt from certain provisions to the extent provided hereinafter.

(1) To the extent that the system of records pertains to the enforcement of criminal laws, the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from all sections of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) except the following sections: (b) relating to conditions of disclosure; (c)(1) and (2) relating to keeping and maintaining a disclosure accounting; (e)(4)(A) through (F) relating to publishing a system notice setting the name, location, categories of individuals and records, routine uses, and policies regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention and disposal of the records; (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11) relating to dissemination and maintenance of records and (i) relating to criminal penalties. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of ยง 308.11 through ยง 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.

(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).

(ii) Reasons:

(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.

(B) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigations, investigators, and witnesses.

(C) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to OIG, consistent with section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.

(D) To protect the confidentiality of non-Federal employee sources of information.

(E) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.

(F) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.

(G) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources.
