
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.14 Specific exemptions.
##### Provided, however,

(2) To the extent that there may exist within this system of records investigative files compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, the OIG Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from the following sections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3) relating to access to the disclosure accounting; (d) relating to access to records; (e)(1) relating to the type of information maintained in the records; (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I) relating to publishing the system notice information as to agency procedures for access and amendment, and information as to the categories of sources or records; and (f) relating to developing agency rules for gaining access and making corrections.That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that they would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which they would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of ยง 308.11 through ยง 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.

(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)

(ii) Reasons:

(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.

(B) To protect investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.

(C) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigation, law enforcement personnel, and sources of information.

(D) To fulfill commitments made to protect the confidentiality of sources.

(E) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to the OIG, consistent with Section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.

(F) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement systems.

(G) [Reserved]

(H) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.

(I) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources and law enforcement personnel.
