
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.15 Identification of requesters.

The agency shall require reasonable identification of all individuals who request access to records to assure that records are not disclosed to persons not entitled to such access.

(a) In the event an individual requests disclosure in person, such individual shall be required to show an identification card such as a driver's license, etc., containing a photo and a sample signature of such individual. Such individual may also be required to sign a statement under oath as to his or her identity acknowledging that he or she is aware of the penalties for improper disclosure under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974.

(b) In the event that disclosure is requested by mail, the agency may request such information as may be necessary to reasonably assure that the individual making such request is properly identified. In certain cases, the agency may require that a mail request be notarized with an indication that the notary received an acknowledgment of identity from the individual making such request.

(c) In the event an individual is unable to provide suitable documentation or identification, the agency may require a signed notarized statement asserting the identity of the individual and stipulating that the individual understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.

(d) In the event a requester wishes to be accompanied by another person while reviewing his or her records, the agency may require a written statement authorizing discussion of his or her records in the presence of the accompanying representative or other persons.
