
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.16 Amendment of records and appeals with respect thereto.
##### Provided, however,

(a) In the event an individual desires to request an amendment of his or her record, he or she may do so by submitting such written request to the Director, Administrative Services, Peace Corps, 806 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20526. The Director, Administrative Services, shall provide assistance in preparing any amendment upon request and a written acknowledgment of receipt of such request within 10 working days after the receipt thereof from the individual who requested the amendment. Such acknowledgment may, if necessary, request any additional information needed to make a determination with respect to such request. If the agency decides to comply with the request within the 10 day period, no written acknowledgment is necessary:That a certification of the change shall be provided to such individual within such period.

(b) Promptly after acknowledgment of the receipt of a request for an amendment the agency shall take one of the following actions:

(1) Make any corrections of any portion of the record which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete.

(2) Inform the individual of its refusal to amend the record in accord with the request together with the reason for such refusal and the procedures established for requesting review of such refusal by the head of the agency or his or her designee. Such notice shall include the name and business address of the reviewing official.

(3) Refer the request to the agency that has control of and maintains the record in those instances where the record requested remains the property of the controlling agency and not of the Peace Corps.
