
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 308 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 308.16 Amendment of records and appeals with respect thereto.
##### Federal Personnel Manual

(c) In reviewing a request to amend the record the agency shall assess the accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness of the record with due and appropriate regard for fairness to the individual about whom the record is maintained. In making such determination, the agency shall consult criteria for determining record quality published in pertinent chapters of theand to the extent possible shall accord therewith.

(d) In the event the agency agrees with the individual's request to amend such record it shall:

(1) Advise the individual in writing,

(2) Correct the record accordingly, and

(3) Advise all previous recipients of a record which was corrected of the correction and its substance.

(e) In the event the agency, after an initial review of the request to amend a record, disagrees with all or a portion of it, the agency shall:

(1) Advise the individual of its refusal and the reasons therefore,

(2) Inform the individual that he or she may request further review in accord with the provisions of these regulations, and

(3) Specify The name and address of the person to whom the request should be directed.

(f) In the event an individual requester disagrees with the initial agency determination, he or she may appeal such determination to the Director of the Peace Corps or his or her designee. Such request for review must be made within 30 days after receipt by the requester of the initial refusal to amend.

(g) If after review the Director or designee refuses to amend the record as requested he or she shall advise the individual requester of such refusal and the reasons for same; of his or her right to file a concise statement in the record of the reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the agency; of the procedures for filing a statement of disagreement and of the fact that such statement so filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with a brief statement of the agency summarizing its reasons for refusal, if the agency decides to place such brief statement in the record. The agency shall have the authority to limit the length of any statement to be filed, such limit to depend upon the record involved. The agency shall also inform such individual that prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of both statements of the dispute to the extent that the accounting of disclosures has been maintained and of the individual's right to seek judicial review of the agency's refusal to amend the record.

(h) If after review the official determines that the record should be amended in accordance with the individual's request, the agency shall proceed as provided above in the event a request is granted upon initial demand.
