
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter III - Peace Corps
### PART 309 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Collection Actions
##### ยง 309.10 Review requirements.

(a) For purposes of this section, whenever Peace Corps is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, Peace Corps shall provide the debtor with an opportunity for an internal review of the existence or the amount of the debt. For offset of current Federal salary under 5 U.S.C. 5514 for certain debts, debtors may also request an outside hearing. (See subpart C of this part)

(b) Any request for a review must be in writing to the contact office by the payment due date stated in the initial notice sent under ยง 309.9(b) or other applicable provision. The debtor's request shall state the basis for the dispute and include any relevant documentation in support.

(1) Peace Corps will provide for an internal review of the debt by an appropriate agency official. The review may include examination of documents, internal discussions with relevant officials and discussion by letter or orally with the debtor, at Peace Corps' discretion.

(2) An oral hearing is not required when, in Peace Corps' determination, the matter can be decided on the documentary record. Peace Corps will provide a "paper hearing", that is, a determination based upon a review of the written record unless Peace Corps makes a determination that a debt involves issues of credibility or veracity, at which point an oral hearing may be required. Unless otherwise required by law, such oral hearing shall not be a formal evidentiary hearing.
