
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter IV - International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
### PART 401 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
#### Subpart B - Applications
##### ยง 401.23 Hearings.

(a) The time and place of the hearing or hearings of an application shall be fixed by the Chairmen of the two sections.

(b) The secretaries shall forthwith give written notice of the time and place of the hearing or hearings to the applicant, the Governments and all persons who have presented statements in response to the Commission. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission, the secretaries shall also cause such notice to be published in the Canada Gazette and theand once each week for three successive weeks in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be affected by the proposed use, obstruction or diversion of water.

(c) All hearings shall be open to the public.

(d) The applicant, the Governments and persons interested are entitled to present oral and documentary evidence and argument that is relevant and material to any issue that is before the Commission in connection with the application.

(e) The presiding chairman may require that evidence to be under oath.

(f) Witnesses may be examined and cross-examined by the Commissioners and by counsel for the applicant, the Governments and the Commission. With the consent of the presiding chairman, cousel for a person other than the applicant may also examine or cross-examine witnesses.

(g) The Commission may require further evidence to be given and may require printed briefs to be submitted at or subsequent to the hearing.

(h) The Commissioners shall be free to determine the probative value of the evidence submitted to it.

(i) A verbatim transcript of the proceedings at the hearing shall be prepared.

(j) The hearing of the application, when once begun, shall proceed at the times and places determined by the Chairmen of the two sections to ensure the greatest practicable continuity and dispatch of proceedings.
