
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter IV - International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
### PART 401 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
#### Subpart C - References
##### ยง 401.29 Hearings.

(a) A hearing or hearings may be held whenever in the opinion of the Commission such action would be helpful to the Commission in complying with the terms of a reference. Subject to any restrictions or exceptions which may be imposed by the terms of the reference, a final hearing or hearings shall be held before the Commission reports to Government in accordance with the terms of the reference.

(b) The time, place and purpose of the hearing or hearings on a reference shall be fixed by the chairmen of the two sections.

(c) The secretaries shall forthwith give written notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing or hearings to each Government and to persons who have advised the Commission of their interest. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the secretaries shall also cause such notice to be published in the Canada Gazette, theand once each week for three successive weeks in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be interested in the subject matter of the reference.

(d) All hearings shall be open to the public, unless otherwise determined by the Commission.

(e) At a hearing, the Governments and persons interested are entitled to present, in person or by counsel, oral and documentary evidence and argument that is relevant and material to any matter that is within the published purpose of the hearing.

(f) The presiding chairman may require that evidence be under oath.

(g) Witnesses may be examined and cross-examined by the Commissioners and by counsel for the Governments and the Commission. With the consent of presiding chairman, counsel for any interested person may also examine or cross-examine witnesses.

(h) The Commission may require further evidence to be given and may require printed briefs to be submitted at or subsequent to the hearing.

(i) A verbatim transcript of the proceedings at the hearing shall be prepared.
