
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 501 - APPOINTMENT OF FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS
#### ยง 501.5 Mid-level FSO Candidate Program (Class 3, 2, or 1).
##### Oral examination.

(2)(i) Applicants approved by the Qualifications Evaluation Panel for examination will be given an oral examination by a panel of Deputy Examiners approved by the Board of Examiners. The oral examination is designed to enable the Board of Examiners to determine whether applicants are functionally qualified for work in the Foreign Service at the mid-level, whether they would be suitable representatives abroad of the United States, whether they have the potential to advance in the Foreign Service, and whether they have the background and experience to make a contribution to the Foreign Service. The oral examination is individually scheduled throughout the year and is normally given in Washington, D.C. At the discretion of the Board of Examiners, it may be given in other American cities, or at Foreign Service posts, selected by the Board.

(ii) The panel will orally examine each applicant through questioning and discussion. There will also be a writing exercise and an in-basket test. Applicants taking the oral examination will be graded according to the standards established by the Board of Examiners. The application of anyone whose score is at or above the passing level set by the Board will be continued. The application of anyone whose score is below the passing level will be terminated. The applicant may, however, reapply in 12 months by submitting a new application.
