
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 501 - APPOINTMENT OF FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS
#### ยง 501.5 Mid-level FSO Candidate Program (Class 3, 2, or 1).
##### Commissioning as a Foreign Service Officer.

(g)(1) Upon completion of three years' service (most of which will have been overseas), the FSO Candidate will be eligible for commissioning as a Foreign Service Officer. The FSO Commissioning Board will review all FSO Candidates appointed on or after March 1, 1980 and will recommend on tenure.

(2) The criterion used for deciding whether to recommend commissioning of FSO Candidates is the Candidate's demonstrated potential to perform effectively as a Foreign Service Officer in a normal range of generalist assignments up through the Class 1 level. No quota or numerical limit is placed on the number of affirmative decisions.

(3) If recommended for commissioning, and having satisfied the language proficiency requirements, the name of the FSO Candidate will be forwarded to the President and the Senate and, upon approval, the FSO Candidate will be commissioned as an FSO.

(4) If the FSO Commissioning Board does not recommend commissioning of the FSO Candidate during its review, it may recommend extension of the FSO Candidacy to allow for a future review. Under no circumstances will an FSO Candidacy be extended to a total of more than five years.

(5) Candidates not recommended for commissioning or who have not satisfied the language proficiency requirement will be separated from the Service at the expiration of their appointment. However, FSO Candidates who were appointed from within the Board with career status as a Domestic or Overseas Specialist may exercise reappointment rights to their previous category in lieu of separation.
