
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 503 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
#### ยง 503.7 Fees.
##### Educational and scientific institutions and news media.

(2)If you are an educational institution or a non-commercial scientific institution, operated primarily for scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, and your request is not for a commercial use, BBG will charge you only for the duplication of documents. Also BBG will not charge you the copying costs for the first 100 pages of duplication. "Educational institution" means a preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, or institution of professional or vocational education. "Non-commercial scientific institution" means an institution that is not operated substantially for purposes of furthering its own or someone else's business, trade, or profit interests, and that is operated for purposes of conducting scientific research whose results are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. "Representative of the news media" means a person actively gathering news for an entity organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. "News" means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. News media entities include television and radio broadcasters, publishers of periodicals (to the extent they publish "news") who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public, and entities that may disseminate news through other media (e.g., electronic dissemination of text). We will treat freelance journalists as representatives of a news media entity if they can show a solid basis for expecting publication through such an entity. A publication contract is such a basis and the requester's past publication record may show such a basis.
