
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 503 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
#### ยง 503.7 Fees.
##### Fee schedule-BBG will charge the following fees:

(c)(1) Manual searching for or reviewing of records:

(i) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-1 through GS-8 or FS-9 through FS-5-an hourly rate of $10.00 will be charged;

(ii) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-9 through GS-13 or FS-5 through FS-2-an hourly rate of $20.00 will be charged;

(iii) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-14 or above or FS-2 or above-an hourly rate of $36.00 will be charged.

(iv) When a search involves employees at more than one of these levels, we will charge the appropriate rate for each.

(2) Computer searching and printing. Except in unusual cases, the cost of computer time will not be a factor in calculating the two free hours of search time. In those unusual cases, where the cost of conducting a computerized search significantly detracts from the Agency's ordinary operations, no more than the dollar cost of two hours of manual search time shall be allowed. For searches conducted beyond the first two hours, the Agency shall only charge the direct costs of conducting such searches.

(3) Photocopying standard size pages-$0.15 per page.

(4) Photocopying odd-size documents (such as punchcards or blueprints) or reproducing other records (such as tapes)-the actual cost of operating the machine, plus the actual cost of the materials used, plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(5) Certifying that records are true copies-this service is not required by the FOIA. If we agree to provide it, we will charge $10.00 per certification.

(6) Sending records by express mail, certified mail, or other special methods. This service is not required by the FOIA. If we agree to provide it, we will charge our actual cost.

(7) Performing any other special service that you request and to which we agree-actual cost of operating any machinery, plus actual cost of any materials used, plus charges for the time of our employees, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
