
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 503 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
#### ยง 503.7 Fees.
##### Waiver or reduction of fees.

(e)We will waive or reduce the fees we would otherwise charge if disclosure of the information meets both of the following tests (paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section):

(1) It is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or activities, regardless of any other public interest it may further. In making this determination, we may consider:

(i) Whether the requester is in a position to contribute to public understanding;

(ii) Whether the requester has such knowledge or expertise as may be necessary to understand the information; and

(iii) Whether the requester's intended use of the information would be likely to disseminate the information among the public.

(2) It is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Commercial interests include interests relating to business, trade, and profit. Not only profit-making corporations have commercial interests; so do nonprofit corporations, individuals, unions, and other associations.

(3) You must make your request for a waiver or reduction at the same time you make your request for records. Only the FOIA Officer may make the decision whether to waive or reduce the fees. If we do not completely grant your request for a waiver or reduction, the denial letter will designate the appeal official.
