
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 503 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
#### ยง 503.8 Exemptions.
##### Trade secrets:

(1)A trade secret is a secret, commercially valuable plan, formula, process, or device that is used for the making, preparing, compounding, or processing of trade commodities and that can be said to be the end product of either innovation or substantial effort. A direct relationship is necessary between the trade secret and the productive process.

(2) Commercial or financial information, obtained from a person, and is privileged or confidential.

(i) Information is "commercial or financial" if it relates to businesses, commerce, trade, employment, profits, or finances (including personal finances).

(ii) Information is obtained from someone outside the Federal Government or from someone within the Government who has a commercial or financial interest in the information. "Person" includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, state or foreign government, or other organization. Information is not "obtained from a person" if it is generated by BBG or another Federal agency.

(iii) Information is "privileged" if it would ordinarily be protected from disclosure in civil discovery by a recognized evidentiary privilege, such as the attorney-client privilege, or the work-product privilege. Information may be privileged for this purpose under a privilege belonging to a person outside the Government, unless the providing of the information to the Government rendered the information no longer protectible in civil discovery.

(iv) Information is "confidential" if it meets one of the following tests:

(A) Disclosure may impair the Government's ability to obtain necessary information in the future;

(B) Disclosure would substantially harm the competitive position of the person who submitted the information;

(C) Disclosure would impair other Government interests, such as program effectiveness and compliance; or

(D) Disclosure would impair other private interests, such as an interest in controlling availability of intrinsically valuable records, which are sold in the market by their owner.
