
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 503 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
#### ยง 503.9 Electronic records.
##### Honoring form or format requests.

(d)We will aid requesters by providing records and information in the form requested, including electronic format, if we can readily reproduce them in that form or format. However, if we cannot accommodate you, we will provide responsive, nonexempt information in a reasonably accessible form.

(1) We will make a reasonable effort to search for records kept in an electronic format. However, if the effort would significantly interfere with the operations of the agency or the agency's use of its computers, we will consider the effort to be unreasonable.

(2) We need not create documents that do not exist, but computer records found in a database rather than in a file cabinet may require the application of codes or some form of programming to retrieve the information. This application of codes or programming of records will not amount to the creation of records.

(3) Except in unusual cases, the cost of computer time will not be a factor in calculating the two free hours of search time available under Sec. 503.7. In those unusual cases, where the cost of conducting a computerized search significantly detracts from the agency's ordinary operations, no more than the dollar cost of two hours of manual search time shall be allowed. For searches conducted beyond the first two hours, the agency shall only charge the direct costs of conducting such searches.
