
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 504 - TESTIMONY BY BBG EMPLOYEES, PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS, AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 504.3 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:

(a) Demand means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other competent authority for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a BBG employee in a legal proceeding.

(b) General Counsel means the General Counsel of the BBG or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.

(c) Legal proceeding means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.

(d) BBG means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.

(e) BBG employee means:

(1) Any current or former employee of the BBG.

(2) This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the BBG and who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the BBG.

(f) Records or official records and information means all information in the custody and control of the BBG, relating to information in the custody and control of the BBG, or acquired by a BBG employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while the individual was employed by the BBG.

(g) Request means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.

(h) Testimony means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.
