
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 512 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS UNDER THE DEBT COLLECTION ACT OF 1982
#### Subpart B - Administrative Offset and Referral to Collection Agencies
##### ยง 512.12 Collection in installments.

(a) Whenever feasible, and except as required otherwise by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties, and administrative costs as required by this regulation, should be collected in one lump sum. This is true whether the debt is being collected under administrative offset or by another method, including voluntary payment. However, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in one lump sum, payment may be accepted in regular installments. If Broadcasting Board of Governors agrees to accept payment in installments, it will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and which contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event the debtor defaults. The size and frequency of the payments should bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and ability to the debtor to pay. If possible the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within 3 years.

(b) If the debtor owes more than one debt and designates how a voluntary installment plan is to be applied among those debts, the Board will follow that designation. If no such designation is made, the Board will apply payments to the various debts in accordance with the best interest of the United States as as determined by the facts and circumstances of each case, with particular attention to application statutes of limitation.
