
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 513 - GOVERNMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT) AND GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (GRANTS)
#### Subpart F - Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants)
##### ยง 513.630 Certification requirements and procedures.

(a)(1) As a prior condition of being awarded a grant, each grantee shall make the appropriate certification to the Federal agency providing the grant, as provided in appendix C to this part.

(2) Grantees are not required to make a certification in order to continue receiving funds under a grant awarded before March 18, 1989, or under a no-cost time extension of such a grant. However, the grantee shall make a one-time drug-free workplace certification for a non-automatic continuation of such a grant made on or after March 18, 1989.

(b) Except as provided in this section, all grantees shall make the required certification for each grant. For mandatory formula grants and entitlements that have no application process, grantees shall submit a one-time certification in order to continue receiving awards.

(c) A grantee that is a State may elect to make one certification in each Federal fiscal year. States that previously submitted an annual certification are not required to make a certification for Fiscal Year 1990 until June 30, 1990. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this certification shall cover all grants to all State agencies from any Federal agency. The State shall retain the original of this statewide certification in its Governor's office and, prior to grant award, shall ensure that a copy is submitted individually with respect to each grant, unless the Federal agency has designated a central location for submission.

(d)(1) The Governor of a State may exclude certain State agencies from the statewide certification and authorize these agencies to submit their own certifications to Federal agencies. The statewide certification shall name any State agencies so excluded.

(2) A State agency to which the statewide certification does not apply, or a State agency in a State that does not have a statewide certification, may elect to make one certification in each Federal fiscal year. State agencies that previously submitted a State agency certification are not required to make a certification for Fiscal Year 1990 until June 30, 1990. The State agency shall retain the original of this State agency-wide certification in its central office and, prior to grant award, shall ensure that a copy is submitted individually with respect to each grant, unless the Federal agency designates a central location for submission.

(3) When the work of a grant is done by more than one State agency, the certification of the State agency directly receiving the grant shall be deemed to certify compliance for all workplaces, including those located in other State agencies.

(e)(1) For a grant of less than 30 days performance duration, grantees shall have this policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but in any case by a date prior to the date on which performance is expected to be completed.

(2) For a grant of 30 days or more performance duration, grantees shall have this policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.

(3) Where extraordinary circumstances warrant for a specific grant, the grant officer may determine a different date on which the policy statement and program shall be in place.
