
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter V - United States Agency for Global Media
### PART 521 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
#### ยง 521.39 Appeal to the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director.

(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director by filing a notice of appeal with the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director in accordance with this section.

(b)(1) No notice of appeal may be filed until the time period for filing a motion for reconsideration under ยง 521.38 has expired.

(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.

(3) If no motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the ALJ issues the initial decision.

(4) The Director may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the Director a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.

(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Director, and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under ยง 521.38 has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Director.

(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decisions and reasons supporting the exceptions.

(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.

(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Director.

(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.

(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the Director shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.

(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the Director shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.

(j) The Director may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment determined by the ALJ in an initial decision.

(k) The Director shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of her/his decision and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.

(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the Director serves the defendant with a copy of her/his decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under ยง 521.3 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
