
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 706 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart B - Obtaining DFC Records
###### ยง 706.11 Requesting non-public records.
####### Description of records sought.

(b)Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable DFC personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist DFC in identifying the requested records, such as the project name, contract number, date or date range, country, title, name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records sought. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact DFC's FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. If a requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, DFC will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, DFC's response to the request may be delayed.
