
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 706 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart C - Fees for Requests of Non-Public Records.
###### ยง 706.23 Fees charged.
####### Restrictions on charging fees.

(b)(1) No search fees will be charged for educational use requests, noncommercial scientific use requests, or news media requests as defined in Section 706.22.

(2) Fees charged when DFC exceeds time limits.

(i) When DFC fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in (b)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.

(ii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and DFC provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten days.

(iii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, DFC may charge all applicable fees incurred in processing the request if the following steps are taken:

(A) DFC has provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and

(B) DFC has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).

(iv) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.

(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, DFC will provide without charge:

(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and

(ii) The first two hours of search.

(5) If, after deducting free entitlements, the total fee calculated under this section is $25.00 or less, no fee will be charged.
