
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 706 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart C - Fees for Requests of Non-Public Records.
###### ยง 706.23 Fees charged.
####### Advance payments.,i.e.,

(g)(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section DFC will not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(2) When DFC determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. DFC may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any agency within thirty calendar days of the billing date, DFC may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request. DFC may also require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before DFC begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where DFC has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented his or her identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.

(4) In cases in which DFC requires advance payment, DFC's response time will be tolled and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within thirty calendar days after the date of DFC's fee letter, DFC may administratively close the request.
