
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 706 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart D - Processing of Requests for Non-Public Records
###### ยง 706.33 Confidential commercial information.
####### Opportunity to object to disclosure.

(e)

(1) DFC will specify a reasonable time period within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced above.

(2) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide DFC with a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In setting forth such grounds, the submitter should explain the basis of its belief that the nondisclosure of any item of information requested is mandated or permitted by law. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as a basis for nondisclosure, the submitter shall explain why the information is considered a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential as defined under FOIA law.

(3) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. DFC is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.

(4) The period for providing DFC with objections to disclosure of information may be extended by DFC upon receipt of a written request for an extension from the submitter. Such written request shall set forth the date upon which any objections are expected to be completed and shall provide reasonable justification for the extension. In its discretion, DFC may permit more than one extension.
