
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 707 - ACCESS TO AND SAFEGUARDING OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Requests for Access to Records; Amendment of Records, Accounting of Disclosures; Notice of Court Ordered Disclosures
###### ยง 707.21 Requests for access to or copies of records.
####### ) Information to include.

(bAll requests under this section must:

(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester. Unless the requester is a current officer or employee of DFC, the letter must also be duly acknowledged before a notary public or other authorized public official or signed under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization;

(2) Provide information sufficient to verify the identity of the requester, including the requester's full name, current address, date of birth, place of birth, or the system of record identification name or number. Also include a clearly legible copy of a valid form of identification. If the request is being made by a parent or guardian on behalf of another, also include the same information for the individual who is the subject of the request along with a court order, birth certificate, or similar document proving the guardianship. DFC will review the sufficiency of identity evidence under paragraph (c) of this section;

(3) Provide information sufficient to accurately identify the records or information so that DFC staff can locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. At minimum this should include the full name, the system of record identification name, or the system identification number for the individual who is the subject of the records. Provision of a social security number is optional. If possible, also include a description of the records as well as providing a record creation time range and the name of the systems that should be searched. A description of DFC's system of records can be located in the "Privacy Act Compilation" published by the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of the Federal Register. Each system of records is also published in the;

(4) Specify whether the individual wishes access to or copies of the information pertaining to him. If access is requested, provide at least one preferred date and hour for which an appointment is requested during regular business hours as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. DFC encourages appointments to be made at least one week in advance and for a requester to provide at least three preferred appointment times; and

(5) Include an agreement to pay fees or an agreement to pay fees up to a specified amount under ยง 707.27. A request that does not include an agreement to pay fees will be considered an agreement to pay fees up to $25.00.
