
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 713 - PRODUCTION OF NONPUBLIC RECORDS AND TESTIMONY OF EMPLOYEES IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 713.1 What does this part prohibit?
###### Duty of DFC employees.

(a)(1) If you are an DFC employee and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or to produce records, you must promptly notify the Vice-president/General Counsel in the Department of Legal Affairs. The Vice-President/General Counsel has the authority to instruct DFC employees to refuse to appear as a witness or to withhold nonpublic records. The Vice-President/General Counsel may let an DFC employee provide testimony, including expert or opinion testimony, if the Vice-President/General Counsel determines that the need for the testimony clearly outweighs contrary considerations.

(2) If a court or other appropriate authority orders or demands from you expert or opinion testimony or testimony beyond authorized subjects contrary to the Vice-President/General Counsel's instructions, you must immediately notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the order and then respectfully decline to comply with the order. You must decline to answer questions on the grounds that this part forbids such disclosure. You should produce a copy of this part, request an opportunity to consult with the Vice-President/General Counsel, and explain that providing such testimony without approval may expose you to disciplinary or other adverse action.
