
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 713 - PRODUCTION OF NONPUBLIC RECORDS AND TESTIMONY OF EMPLOYEES IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 713.1 What does this part prohibit?
###### Duty of persons who are not DFC employees.

(b)(1) If you are not an DFC employee but have custody of nonpublic records, as defined at ยง 713.10, and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to produce records or to testify as a witness, you must promptly notify DFC of the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this part. Provide notice to DFC by sending a copy of the subpoena to the Vice-President/General Counsel, DFC, 1100 New York Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20527. After reviewing notice, DFC may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this part applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections.

(2) After you notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the subpoena, respond to the subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena, unless otherwise directed by the Vice President/General Counsel. Unless otherwise authorized by the Vice-President/General Counsel, decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this part. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, decline to produce records or testify and advise the Vice-President/General Counsel.
