
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter VII - US International Development Finance Corporation
### Subchapter A - Administrative Provisions
#### PART 713 - PRODUCTION OF NONPUBLIC RECORDS AND TESTIMONY OF EMPLOYEES IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 713.7 What will DFC do with my request?
###### Factors DFC will consider.

(a)DFC may consider various factors in reviewing a request for nonpublic records or testimony of DFC employees, including:

(1) Whether disclosure would assist or hinder DFC in performing its statutory duties or use DFC resources unreasonably, including whether responding to the request will interfere with DFC employees' ability to do their work.

(2) Whether disclosure is necessary to prevent the perpetration of a fraud or other injustice in the matter.

(3) Whether you can get the records or testimony you want from sources other than DFC.

(4) Whether the request is unduly burdensome.

(5) Whether disclosure would violate a statute, executive order, or regulation, such as the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(6) Whether disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release and, if so, whether a confidentiality agreement or protective order as provided in ยง 713.9(a) can adequately limit the disclosure.

(7) Whether the disclosure would interfere with law enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or hamper DFC programs or other DFC operations.

(8) Whether the disclosure could result in DFC's appearing to favor one litigant over another.

(9) Any other factors DFC determines to be relevant to the interests of DFC.
