
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter IX - Foreign Service Grievance Board
### PART 903 - INITIATION AND DOCUMENTATION OF CASES
#### ยง 903.9 Access to records.

(a) If a party is denied access to any Agency record prior to or during the consideration of a case by the Agency, the party may protest such denial before the Board in connection with the case.

(b) In considering a case, the Board shall have access to any Agency record as follows:

(1) the Board shall request access to any Agency record which the grievant/charged employee requests to substantiate his or her grievance or defense to a charge if the Board determines that such record may be relevant and material to the case.

(2) the Board may request access to any other Agency record which the Board determines may be relevant and material to the case.

(3) An Agency shall make available to the Board any Agency record requested under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section unless the head or deputy head or such Agency personally certifies in writing to the Board that disclosure of the record to the Board and the parties would adversely affect the foreign policy or national security of the United States or that such disclosure is prohibited by law. If such a certification is made with respect to any record, the Agency shall supply to the Board a summary or extract of such record unless the reasons specified in the preceding sentence preclude such a summary or extract.

(c) If the Board determines that an Agency record, or a summary or extract of a record, made available to the Board under paragraph (b) of this section is relevant and material to the case, the Agency concerned shall make such record, summary, or extract, as the case may be, available to the parties.

(d) In considering a case, the Board may take into account the fact that the parties or the Board were denied access to any Agency record which the Board determines is or may be relevant and material to the case.

(e) The parties in any case decided by the Board shall have access to the record of proceedings and the decision of the Board.
