
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter X - Inter-American Foundation
### PART 1003 - RULES SAFEGUARDING PERSONAL INFORMATION IN IAF RECORDS
#### ยง 1003.3 Access to records.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation any individual upon request may gain access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in any system or records maintained by the Inter-American Foundation. The individual will be permitted, and upon his or her request, a person of his or her own choosing permitted to accompany him or her, to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him or her. The Inter-American foundation will require, however, a written statement from the individual authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompanying person's presence.

(b) Any individual may request amendment of any Inter-American Foundation record pertaining to him or her. Not later than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such request, the Inter-American Foundation will acknowledge in writing such receipt. The Inter-American Foundation will also promptly either:

(1) Correct any part thereof which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or

(2) Inform the individual of the Inter-American Foundation's refusal to amend the record in accordance with his or her request, the reason for the refusal, the procedures by which the individual may request a review of that refusal by the Administrator or designee, and the name and address of such official.

(c) Any individual who disagrees with the Inter-American Foundation's refusal to amend his or her record may request a review of such refusal. The Inter-American Foundation will complete such review not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date on which the individual requests such review and make a final determination unless, for good cause shown, the Administrator extends such 30-day period. If, after review, the Administrator or designee also refuses to amend the record in accordance with the request the individual will be advised of the right to file with the Inter-American Foundation a concise statement setting forth the reasons for his or her disagreement with the Inter-American Foundation's refusal, and also advised of the provisions for judicial review of the reviewing official's determination (5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A)).

(d) In any disclosure, containing information about which the individual has filed a statement of disagreement, occurring after the filing of the statement under paragraph (c) of this section, the Inter-American Foundation will clearly note any part of the record which is disputed and provide copies of the statement (and, if the Inter-American Foundation deems it appropriate, copies also of a concise statement of the Inter-American Foundation's reasons for not making the amendments requested) to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed.

(e) Nothing in 5 U.S.C. 552a, however, allows an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
