
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter X - Inter-American Foundation
### PART 1003 - RULES SAFEGUARDING PERSONAL INFORMATION IN IAF RECORDS
#### ยง 1003.5 Access to personal information from Inter-American Foundation records.

(a) The Inter-American Foundation will promulgate regulations, as necessary, to insure compliance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, developed in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, as applicable.

(b) Any individual will be notified upon request if any Inter-American Foundation system of records named contains a record pertaining to him or her. Such request must be in writing over the signature of the requester. The request must contain a reasonable description of the Inter-American Foundation system or systems of records meant, as described at least annually by notice published in thedescribing the existence and character of the Inter-American Foundation's system or systems of records. The request should be made to the Executive Officer, Inter-American Foundation, 1515 Wilson Boulevard, Rosslyn, Virginia 22209. Personal contacts should normally be made during the regular duty hours of the office concerned, which are 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Identification of the individual requesting the information will be required consisting of name, signature, address, and claim, insurance or other identifying file number, if any, as a minimum.

(c) The department or staff office having jurisdiction over the records involved will establish appropriate disclosure procedures and will notify the individual requesting disclosure of his or her record or information pertaining to him or her of the time, place and conditions under which the Inter-American Foundation will comply to the extent permitted by law and Inter-American Foundation regulation. Special procedures will be established by the department or staff office concerned governing the disclosure to an individual of medical records, including psychological records pertaining to him or her.

(d) The department or staff office having jurisdiction over the records involved will also establish procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to the individual for making a determination on the request, for an appeal within the Inter-American Foundation of an initial adverse Inter-American Foundation determination, and for whatever additional means may be necessary for each individual to be able to exercise fully his or her rights under 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(e) Fees to be charged, if any, to any individual for making copies of his or her record, excluding the cost of any search for and review of the record, will be as follows:

(1) Photocopy reproductions from all types of copying processes, each reproduction image, $0.05.

(2) Where the Inter-American Foundation undertakes to perform for a requester or for any other person services which are very clearly not required to be performed under section 552a, title 5, United States Code, either voluntarily or because such services are required by some other law (e.g., the formal certification of records as true copies, attestation under the seal of the Inter-American Foundation, etc.), the question of charging fees for such services will be determined by the official or designee authorized to release the information under ยง 1.556, in the light of the Federal user charge statute, 31 U.S.C. 483a, and any other applicable law.
