
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter X - Inter-American Foundation
### PART 1004 - RULES FOR IMPLEMENTING OPEN MEETINGS WITHIN THE INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
#### ยง 1004.6 Procedures for closing meetings.

(a) The closing of a meeting or a portion of a meeting shall occur only when:

(1) A majority of the membership of the IAF Board votes to take such action. That vote shall determine whether or not any portion or portions of a meeting or portions of a series of meetings may be closed to public observation for any of the reasons provided in ยง 1004.4 and whether or not the public interest nevertheless requires that portion of the meeting or meetings remain open. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Board member participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.

(2) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the IAF close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in ยง 1004.4 the IAF, upon request of any one of its Board members, shall take a recorded vote, whether to close such portion of the meeting.

(b) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to this Section, the IAF shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question and full written explanation of its action closing the entire or portion of the meeting together with a list of persons expecting to attend the meeting and their affiliation.

(c) The IAF shall, subject to change, announce the time, place and subject matter of the meeting at least 7 days before the meeting.

(d) For every closed meeting pursuant to ยง 1004.4, the General Counsel of the IAF shall publicly certify prior to a Board of Directors' vote on closing the meeting, that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the IAF.
