
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XI - International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
### PART 1101 - PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 1101.11 Fees.

(a) Under the Act, fees can only be charged for the cost of copying records. No fees may be charged for the time it takes to search for the records or for the time it takes to determine if any exemptions apply. The Section will not charge a fee for the first copy of an individual's personnel record.

(b) The Section will charge a fee of $0.10 per page for copies of documents which are identified by an individual and reproduced at the individual's request for retention, except that there will be no charge for requests involving costs of $1.00 or less, but the copying fees for contemporaneous request by the same individual shall be aggregated to determine the total fee.

(c) Special and additional services provided at the request of the individual, such as certification or authentication, will be charged to the individual in accordance with other published regulations of the Section pursuant to statute (for example, 22 CFR part 1102-Freedom of Information Act.)

(d) Remittances shall be in the form of either a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, a postal money order, or cash. Remittance shall be made payable to the order of the U.S. Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, and delivered to or mailed to the PA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The Section will assume no responsibility for cash sent by mail.

(e) A receipt for fees paid will be given only upon request.
