
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XI - International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
### PART 1101 - PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 1101.12 Request to correct or amend a record.

(a) Any individual may submit a request for correction of or amendment to a record to the Section. The request should be made either in person or by mail addressed to the PA Officer who processed the individual's request for access to the record, and to whom is delegated authority to make initial determinations on requests for correction or amendment.

(b) Since the request, in all cases, will follow a request for access under ยง 1101.6, the individual's identity will be established by his or her signature on the request.

(c) A request for correction or amendment should be in writing. The envelope containing the request should be marked "Privacy Act Amendment Request" on the lower left hand corner. The request should include the following:

(1) First, the letter should state that it is a request to amend a record under the Privacy Act of 1974.

(2) Second, the request should identify the specific record and the specific information in the record for which an amendment is being sought.

(3) Third, the request should state why the information is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. Supporting evidence may be included with the request.

(4) Fourth, the request should state what new or additional information, if any, should be included in place of the erroneous information. Evidence of the validity of new or additional information should be included. If the information in the file is wrong and needs to be removed rather than supplemented or corrected, the request should make this clear.

(5) Fifth, the request should include the name, address, and telephone number (optional) of the requester.
