
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XI - International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
### PART 1102 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1102.9 Annual report to Congress.

(a) On or before March 1 of each calendar year the Commissioner shall submit a report covering the preceding calendar year to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and President of the Senate for referral to the appropriate committees of the Congress. The report shall include:

(1) The number of determinations made by the section not to comply with request for records made to the section under the Act and this part and the reasons for each such determination.

(2) The number of appeals made by persons under the Act and this part, the result of such appeals, and the reason for the action upon each appeal that results in a denial of information.

(3) The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial of records requested under the Act, and the number of instances of participation for each.

(4) The results of each proceeding conducted pursuant to 552(1)(4)(F) of the Act, including a report of the disciplinary action taken against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for improperly withholding records or an explanation of why disciplinary action was not taken.

(5) A copy of this part.

(6) A copy of the fee schedule and the total amount of fees collected by the section for making records available under the Act.

(7) Such other information as indicates efforts to administer fully the Act.

(b) A copy of each such report to the Congress made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be made available for public inspection and copying in the office of the FOIA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422.
