
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1203.735-103 Interpretation and advisory service.

(a) Counseling services on employee responsibilities and conduct are available in each agency. These services are to be coordinated by a Counselor appointed by the agency head. The Counselor for IDCA is the General Counsel. The Counselor serves as the agency's designee to the Civil Service Commission on matters covered by the regulations in this part and is responsible for coordination of the agency's counseling services under paragraph (b) of this section and for assuring that counseling and interpretations on questions of conflicts of interest and other matters covered by these sections are available to deputy counselors designated under paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Each agency head may designate deputy counselors for the agency's employees and special Government employees. Deputy Counselors designated under this section must be qualified and in a position to give authoritative advice and guidance to each employee and special Government employee who seeks advice and guidance on questions of conflicts of interest and on other matters covered by the regulations in this part. A Washington employee or special Government employee should address any inquiries concerning the regulations in this part to the Counselor. At missions abroad the chief of each agency's establishment designates an officer, preferably the legal officer where one is available, to provide counseling services under the guidance of the Counselor; a single officer may serve all agencies. An employee or special Government employee serving abroad should submit inquiries to the officer designated.

(c) Each agency shall periodically notify its employees and special Government employees of the availability of counseling services and how and when these services are available. A new employee or special Government employee shall be notified at the time of entrance on duty.
