
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 1203.735-202 Gifts, entertainment, and favors.
###### Acceptance permitted for AID employees.

(d)For AID employees the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply in the following situations:

(1) Acceptance of food, refreshments, or entertainment of nominal value on infrequent occasions offered in the ordinary course of luncheons, dinners, or other meetings and gatherings hosted by foreign governments or agencies and officials thereof, embassies, and international organizations, where the primary purpose of the function is representational or social, rather than the transaction of business. Where the primary purpose of the function is the transaction of business, acceptance is not permitted, except if there is justification and reporting in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(2) Participation in widely attended lunches, dinners, and similar gatherings sponsored by industrial, technical, and professional associations for the discussion of matters of mutual interest to Government and industry.

(3) Acceptance of food, refreshments, or entertainment in the unusual situation where the employee, by virtue of the location of the person, firm, corporation, or other entity, or the regulations governing its dining facilities, finds it inconvenient or impracticable not to accept the offer. Each case of acceptance shall be reported in accordance with the requirement of paragraph (d)(4) of this section. In no other case shall employees accept food, refreshments, or entertainment from private corporations, entities, firms, or individual contractors at occasions which are other than widely attended functions whose purposes are unrelated to Agency business.
