
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 1203.735-204 Outside employment and other activity.

(a) An employee shall not engage in outside employment or other outside activity not compatible with the full and proper discharge of the duties and responsibilities of Government employment. Incompatible activities include but are not limited to:

(1) Acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of expense, or any other thing of monetary value in circumstances in which acceptance may result in, or create the appearance of, conflicts of interest; or

(2) Outside employment which tends to impair the employee's mental or physical capacity to perform Government duties and responsibilities in an acceptable manner.

(b) An employee shall not receive any salary or anything of monetary value from a private source as compensation for the employee's services to the Government (18 U.S.C. 209).

(c) Employees are encouraged to engage in teaching, lecturing, and writing that is not prohibited by law, the Executive order, this part, or the agency regulations. However, an employee shall not, either for or without compensation, engage in teaching, lecturing, or writing including teaching, lecturing, or writing for the purpose of the special preparation of a person or class of persons for an examination of the Civil Service Commission or Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, that is dependent on information obtained as a result of Government employment, except when that information has been made available to the general public or will be made available on request or when the agency head gives written authorization for use of nonpublic information on the basis that the use is in the public interest. In addition, an employee who is a Presidential appointee covered by section 401(a) of the Executive order shall not receive compensation or anything of monetary value for any consultation, lecture, discussion, writing, or appearance the subject matter of which is devoted substantially to the responsibilities, programs, or operations of the employee's agency, or which draws substantially on official data or ideas which have not become part of the body of public information. Employees are referred to the detailed rules of their agency with respect to clearance and acceptance of compensation (See AID Handbook 18)

(d) [Reserved]

(e) An employee shall not render any services, whether or not compensated, to any foreign government, state, province, or semigovernmental agency, or municipality of any foreign government, or to any international organization of states. However, this shall not prevent the rendering of such services by employees acting on behalf of the United States. Nor shall this provision prevent the rendering of services to an international organization of states when otherwise consistent with law and when authorized by the appropriate officer. The appropriate officer for IDCA is the Assistant Director for Administration.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) This section does not preclude an employee from:

(1) Participation in the activities of national or State political parties not proscribed by law.

(2) Participation in the affairs of or acceptance of an award for a meritorious public contribution or achievement given by a charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, nonprofit educational and recreational, public service, or civic organization.
