
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 1203.735-211 Activities relating to private organizations and politics.
###### Private organizations concerned with foreign policy or other matters of concern to agencies.

(e)(1) Limitation on participation. When a private organization is concerned primarily with foreign policy or international relations or other matters of concern to an employee's agency, an employee shall limit connection therewith as follows: Unless specifically permitted to do so, the employee may not serve as advisor, officer, director, teacher, sponsor, committee chairman, or in any other official capacity or permit the employee's name to be used on a letterhead, in a publication, in an announcement or news story, or at a public meeting, regardless of whether the employee's official title or connection is mentioned. The provisions of this section are not intended to prohibit the normal and active participation of an employee in professional organizations such as the American Political Science Association, the American Economic Association, the American Foreign Service Association, and similar organizations, since such participation is in the interest of both the employee and the Government. Employees are expected, however, to exercise discretion in such activities and are held personally accountable for any improper use of their relationship with IDCA.

(2) Request for special permission. Special permission to assume or continue a connection prohibited by paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be granted in cases where the public interest will not be adversely affected. To request such permission, or to determine whether the provisions are applicable to a particular case, the employee shall address a memorandum setting forth all of the circumstances to the appropriate officer. The appropriate officer for IDCA is the Assistant Director for Administration.

(3) Application to senior officers. Because of the prominence resulting from their official positions, chiefs of mission and other senior officers should recognize the particular bearing of the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon their activities. They should restrict association with any organizations involving foreign nations and the United States to simple membership and should not accept even honorary office in such organizations except with the specific prior approval as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
