
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 1203.735-216 Miscellaneous statutory provisions.

Each employee shall become acquainted with each statute that relates to the employee's ethical and other conduct as an agency employee of and of the Government.

(a) The attention of employees is directed to the following statutory provisions:

(1) House Concurrent Resolution 175, 85th Congress, 2d session, 72 Stat. B12, the "Code of Ethics for Government Service."

(2) Chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code, relating to bribery, graft, and conflicts of interest, as appropriate to the employees concerned.

(3) The prohibition against lobbying with appropriated funds (18 U.S.C. 1913).

(4) The prohibitions against disloyalty and striking (5 U.S.C. 7311, 18 U.S.C. 1918).

(5) The prohibitions against (i) the disclosure of classified information (18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 783); and (ii) the disclosure of confidential information (18 U.S.C. 1905).

(6) The provision relating to the habitual use of intoxicants to excess (5 U.S.C. 7352).

(7) The prohibition against the misuse of a Government vehicle (31 U.S.C. 638a(c)).

(8) The prohibition against the misuse of the franking privilege (18 U.S.C. 1719).

(9) The prohibition against the use of deceit in an examination or personnel action in connection with Government employment (18 U.S.C. 1917).

(10) The prohibition against fraud or false statements in a Government matter (18 U.S.C. 1001).

(11) The prohibition against mutilating or destroying a public record (18 U.S.C. 2071).

(12) The prohibition against counterfeiting and forging transportation requests (18 U.S.C. 508).

(13) The prohibition against (i) embezzlement of Government money or property (18 U.S.C. 641); (ii) failing to account for public money (18 U.S.C. 643); and (iii) embezzlement of the money or property of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of the employee's employment (18 U.S.C. 654).

(14) The prohibition against unauthorized use of documents relating to claims from or by the Government (18 U.S.C. 285).

(15) The prohibition against political activities in subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 608.

(16) The prohibition against an employee acting as the agent of a foreign principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (18 U.S.C. 219).

(17) The prohibition against discrimination because of politics, race, religion, or color (22 U.S.C. 807).

(18) The prohibition against officers or employees accepting any honorarium in excess of $2,000 or honoraria aggregating more than $25,000 in any calendar year (sec. 112, Pub. L. 94-283, 90 Stat. 494 (2 U.S.C. 441i)).

(b) The attention of consular officers is directed to the following statutory provisions:

(1) The provisions relating to the duty to account for fees received (22 U.S.C. 9, 812, 1194), liability for exaction of excessive fees (22 U.S.C. 1182, 1189), and liability for failure to collect proper fees (22 U.S.C. 1190).

(2) The provisions relating to liability for failure to give bond and for embezzlement (22 U.S.C. 1179), liability for embezzlement of fees or effects of American citizens (22 U.S.C. 1198), and liability for falsely certifying as to the ownership of property (22 U.S.C. 1200).

(3) The prohibition against profiting from dealings with discharged seamen (22 U.S.C. 1187).

(4) The provision relating to liability for failure to collect the wages of discharged seamen (46 U.S.C. 683).
