
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart B - Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
##### ยง 1203.735-217 Requesting exceptions from certain statutory prohibitions.

(a) Any employee desiring a written advance determination that the prohibitions of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) do not apply will prepare a written request addressed to an appropriate agency official. For purposes of this section, the appropriate agency official is: The Deputy Under Secretary for Management for State, the Administrator for AID, and the Director for ICA. The request will describe the particular matter giving rise to the conflict of interest, the nature and extent of the employee's anticipated participation in the particular matter, and the exact nature and amount of the financial interest related to the particular matter.

(b) The employee will forward the request to the appropriate agency official through the immediate supervisor and the assistant agency head in charge of the organizational agency component to which the employee is assigned, or will be assigned in the case of a new employee. The assistant agency head will forward the written request to the appropriate agency official through the agency's Counselor. The Counselor shall attach a written opinion to the request, prepare a recommended written determination in final form for signature by the appropriate agency official, and shall forward all documents to that official.

(c) The determination of the appropriate agency official will be sent to the employee by the Counselor. If the appropriate agency official grants the requested exception, the original written advance determination will be sent to the employee. A duplicate original shall be retained among the appropriate agency records under the control of the Counselor.
