
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart D - Statements of Employment and Financial Interests
##### ยง 1203.735-407 Supplementary statements.

(a) Employees, as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of ยง 1203.735-401, shall report changes in, or additions to, the information contained in their statements of employment and financial interests in supplementary statements as of June 30 each year. If no changes or additions occur, a negative report is required.

(b) All special Government employees, as defined in paragraph (a) of ยง 1203.735-401, shall submit a current statement at the time their appointments are extended. A supplementary report indicating any changes in, or additions to the information already submitted will be accepted in lieu of a full submission. If there are no changes or additions, a negative report is required.

(c) Notwithstanding the filing of reports required by this section, each employee shall at all times avoid acquiring a financial interest that could result, or taking an action that would result, in a violation of the conflicts-of-interest provisions of section 208 of title 18, United States Code, or subpart B of this part.

(d) An employee is also to keep current the employee's description of principal duties as to changes or additions which might possibly be an element in a conflict of interest. The employing office shall submit descriptions of changes in the principal duties of a special Government employee as they occur.
