
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XII - United States International Development Cooperation Agency
### PART 1203 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart D - Statements of Employment and Financial Interests
##### ยง 1203.735-408 Review of statements and determination as to conflicts of interest.

(a) On the basis of the Statement of Employment and Financial Interests submitted by each employee or special Government employee, or on the basis of information received from other sources, the Counselor shall determine, in the light of the duties which that employee or special Government employee is or will be performing, whether any conflicts of interest, real or apparent, are indicated. The Counselor shall make this determination based on the applicable statutes, the Executive order, and the applicable regulations of the Civil Service Commission, and of the agency.

(b) Where the Counselor's determination in a particular case is that a conflict of interest, real or apparent, is indicated, the Counselor shall initiate informal discussions with the employee or special Government employee concerned. These discussions shall have as their objectives:

(1) Providing the individual with a full opportunity to explain the conflict or appearance of conflict; and

(2) Arriving at an agreement (acceptable to the Counselor, the individual and the individual's immediate superior) whereby the conflict of interest may be removed or avoided. Such an agreement may include, but is not limited to: (i) Changes in assigned duties; (ii) divestiture of the financial or employment interest creating the conflict or apparent conflict; or (iii) disqualification for a particular assignment.

(c) Where an acceptable agreement cannot be obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Counselor shall present findings and recommendations to the officer designated by the agency head, who shall decide which remedy is most appropriate to remove or correct that conflict or apparent conflict. Remedial action under this paragraph may include disciplinary action, including separation for cause, or any of the actions enumerated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and shall be effective in accordance with applicable laws, Executive orders, and regulations.

(d) Written summaries of all agreements and decisions arrived at pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be placed in the Counselor's files. Copies shall also be made available to the employee or special Government employee concerned.
