
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1304 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Requests for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1304.4 Requirements for making requests.
###### FOIA@mcc.gov

(a) Requests for access to, or copies of, MCC records other than those identified in ยง 1304.3, shall be in writing and addressed to the MCC Chief FOIA Officer at 1099 14th St. NW, Washington, DC 20005 or. All requests for records shall be deemed to have been made pursuant to the FOIA, regardless of whether the request specifically mentions the Freedom of Information Act. To facilitate processing, the requester should place the phrase "FOIA REQUEST" in capital letters on the front of the envelope or subject line of the email.

(b) Each request shall include the following:

(1) A description of the record(s) that provides sufficient detail to enable MCC to locate the record(s) with a reasonable amount of effort; such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the MCC FOIA Program Officer to discuss the records the are seeking and receive assistance in describing the records;

(2) The preferred format of the records;

(3) The requestor's full name, mailing address or email address, and telephone number where the requester can be reached during business hours; and

(4) If applicable, the maximum amount the requester is willing to pay or dollar limit on the fees MCC may incur to respond to the request for records. When this information is specified, MCC shall not exceed such limit.

(c) If a request does not meet all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the FOIA Program Officer may advise the requester that additional information is needed. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify a request may engage with the MCC Program Officer to clarify their request.
