
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1305 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION AND TESTIMONY BY MCC PERSONNEL AS WITNESSES
#### ยง 1305.6 Processing demands.

(a) After service of a demand to produce or disclose official documents and information, the General Counsel will review the demand and, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify on matters relating to official information and/or produce official documents.

(b) If information or material is sought by a demand in any case or matter in which MCC is not a party, an affidavit or, if that is not feasible, a statement by the party seeking the information or material, or by his/her attorney setting forth a summary of the information or material sought and its relevance to the proceeding, must be submitted before a decision is made as to whether materials will be produced or permission to testify or otherwise provide information will be granted. Any authorization for testimony by a present or former employee of MCC shall be limited to the scope of the demand.

(c) When necessary, the General Counsel will coordinate with the Department of Justice to file appropriate motions, including motions to remove the matter to Federal court, to quash, or to obtain a protective order.

(d) If a demand fails to follow the requirements of these regulations, MCC will not allow the testimony or produce the documents.

(e) MCC will process demands in the order in which they are received. Absent unusual circumstances, MCC will respond within 45 days of the date that the demand was received. The time for response will depend upon the scope of the demand.

(f) The General Counsel may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this subpart where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of MCC or the United States or for other good cause.
