
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1306 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1306.2 Scope.
###### Applicability of Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS).

(a)MCC hereby adopts the provisions of the Federal Claims Collections Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904) and, except as set forth in this part or otherwise provided by law, MCC will conduct administrative actions to collect claims (including offset, compromise, suspension, termination, disclosure and referral) in accordance with the FCCS.

(b) This part is not applicable to any debt or claim for which collection is explicitly provided for or prohibited under other statutory authorities. This includes, but is not limited to:

(1) MCC claims against another Federal agency, any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or any public international organization.

(2) Debts arising out of acquisitions subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) which shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with the regulations published at 48 CFR part 32.

(3) Debts arising from the audit of transportation accounts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726 which shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with the regulations published at 41 CFR parts 102-118.

(4) Debts based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws, or in regard to which there is an indication of fraud, presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim, which shall be referred to the Department of Justice for compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.

(5) Tax debts.
