
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1306 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1306.6 Collection in installments.

(a) Whenever feasible, and except as required otherwise by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties, and administrative costs as required by this part, should be collected in one lump sum. This is true whether the debt is being collected under administrative offset, including salary offset, or by another method, including voluntary payment. However, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in one lump sum or the amount of debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval collection must be made in regular installments. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within three years, and in the case of a current MCC employee, installment repayment plans must be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment, except as provided in paragraph (b) in this section. However, the amount deducted for any period under this section and ยง 1306.16 may not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court.

(b) If the employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment ends before collection of the debt is completed, MCC may collect the debt from subsequent payments of any nature (e.g., final salary payment, lump-sum leave, etc.) due the employee from the paying agency as of the date of separation to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt. Following the employee's separation, MCC may collect any later payments of any kind that are due to the former employee from the United States to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt.
