
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1306 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1306.14 Request for a hearing for certain debts.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, an employee must file a request that is received by the official identified in the notice provided pursuant to ยง 1306.12(a)(11) not later than 15 calendar days from the date of MCC's notice if an employee wants a hearing concerning:

(1) The existence or amount of the debt; or

(2) MCC's proposed offset schedule.

(b) The request must be signed by the employee and should identify and explain with reasonable specificity and brevity the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position. If the employee objects to the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted from each check, the request should state the objection and the reasons for it.

(c) The employee must also specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.

(d) If the employee files a request for a hearing later than the required 15 calendar days as described in paragraph (a) of this section, MCC may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee otherwise has actual notice of the filing deadline).

(e) If the employee files a timely request for reconsideration pursuant to ยง 1306.13(b), the employee must file a request for a hearing by the official identified in the notice provided pursuant to ยง 1306.12(a)(11) not later than 15 calendar days from the date of MCC's written decision concerning the reconsideration request.

(f) An employee waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her pay offset if the employee fails to file a petition for a hearing in accordance with this section.
