
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIII - Millennium Challenge Corporation
### PART 1306 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1306.18 Waiver of indebtedness.

(a) An employee may request a waiver of indebtedness. When an employee makes a request under a statutory right, further collection may be stayed pending an administrative determination on the request. During the period of any suspension, interest, penalties and administrative charges may be held in abeyance. MCC will not duplicate, for purposes of salary offset, any of the notices/procedures already provided the debtor prior to a request for waiver.

(b) Waiver of indebtedness is an equitable remedy and as such must be based on an assessment of the facts involved in the individual case under consideration. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that the applicable waiver standard has been met in accordance with MCC's Policy on Waivers of Indebtedness.

(c) A debtor requesting a waiver shall do so in writing to the official identified in ยง 1306.12(a)(8) and within the timeframe stated within the initial notice sent under ยง 1306.12. The debtor's written response shall state the basis for the dispute and include any relevant documentation in support.

(d) While a waiver request is pending, MCC may suspend collection, including the accrual of interest and penalties, on the debt if MCC determines that suspension is in the agency's best interest or would serve equity and good conscience.
