
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter B - General Provisions
#### PART 1411 - AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
##### ยง 1411.7 Appeal from denial of request.
###### Foreign Service Labor Relations Board/General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.

(a)(1) Whenever any request for records is denied, a written appeal may be filed within thirty (30) days after the requester receives notification that the request has been denied or after the requester receives any records being made available, in the event of partial denial. If the denial was made by a Regional Director or by the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Counsel, the appeal shall be filed with the General Counsel in Washington, DC. If the denial was made by the Solicitor of the Authority, the appeal shall be filed with the Chairperson of the Board in Washington, DC.

(2) The Chairperson of the Board or the General Counsel, as appropriate, shall, within twenty (20) working days from the time of receipt of the appeal, except as provided in ยง 1411.8, make a determination on the appeal and respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.

(i) If the determination is to comply with the request and the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $25.00, the determination shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of ยง 1411.10 before the records are made available.

(ii) Whenever possible, the determination relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $25.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Board or the General Counsel.
