
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter B - General Provisions
#### PART 1411 - AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
##### ยง 1411.7 Appeal from denial of request.
###### Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel.

(b)(1) Whenever any request for records is denied by the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, a written appeal may be filed with the Chairperson of the Panel within thirty (30) days after the requester receives notification that the request has been denied or after the requester receives any records being made available, in the event of partial denial.

(2) The Chairperson of the Panel, within twenty (20) working days from the time of receipt of the appeal, except as provided in ยง 1411.8, shall make a determination on the appeal and respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.

(i) If the determination is to comply with the request and the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $25.00, the determination shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of ยง 1411.10 before the records are made available.

(ii) Whenever possible, the determination relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $25.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Panel.

(c) If on appeal the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part by the Chairperson of the Board, the General Counsel, or the Chairperson of the Panel, as appropriate, the person making the request shall be notified of the reasons for the determination, the name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial, and the provisions for judicial review of that determination under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). Even though no appeal is filed from a denial in whole or in part of a request for records by the person making the request, the Chairperson of the Board, the General Counsel or the Chairperson of the Panel, as appropriate, may, without regard to the time limit for filing of an appeal, sua sponte initiate consideration of a denial under this appeal procedure by written notification to the person making the request. In such event, the time limit for making the determination shall commence with the issuance of such notification.
