
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### § 1422.2 Contents of petition; filing and service of petition; challenges to petition.
###### Adequacy and validity of showing of interest or showing of membership.

(f)(1) The Regional Director shall determine the adequacy of the showing of interest or the showing of membership administratively, and such determination shall not be subject to collateral attack at a unit or representation hearing. If the petition is dismissed or the intervention sought pursuant to § 1422.5 is denied, a request for review of such dismissal or denial may be filed with the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d).

(2) Any party challenging the validity of any showing of interest or showing of membership of a petitioner, or a cross-petitioner filing pursuant to § 1422.5(b), or of a labor organization seeking to intervene pursuant to § 1422.5, must file its challenge with the Regional Director, with respect to the petitioner or a cross-petitioner, within twenty (20) days after the initial date of posting of the notice of petition as provided in § 1422.4(a), and with respect to any labor organization seeking to intervene, within twenty (20) days of service of a copy of the request for intervention on the challenging party. The challenge shall be supported with evidence including signed statements of employees and any other written evidence. The Regional Director shall investigate the challenge and thereafter shall take such action as the Regional Director deems appropriate which shall be final and not subject to review by the Board, unless the petition is dismissed or the intervention is denied on the basis of the challenge. Such request for review shall be filed with the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d).
