
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 1422.6 Withdrawal, dismissal or deferral of petitions; consolidation of cases; denial of intervention; review of action by Regional Director.

(a) If the Regional Director determines, after such investigation as the Regional Director deems necessary, that the petition has not been timely filed, the unit is not as described in 22 U.S.C. 4114, the petitioner has not made a sufficient showing of interest, the petition is not otherwise actionable, or an intervention is not appropriate, the Regional Director may request the petitioner or intervenor to withdraw the petition or the request for intervention. In the absence of such withdrawal within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director may dismiss the petition or deny the request for intervention.

(b) If the Regional Director determines, after investigation, that a valid issue has been raised by a challenge under ยง 1422.2 (f) or (g), the Regional Director may take action which may consist of the following, as appropriate:

(1) Request the petitioner or intervenor to withdraw the petition or the request for intervention;

(2) Dismiss the petition and/or deny the request for intervention if a withdrawal request is not submitted within a reasonable period of time;

(3) Defer action on the petition or request for intervention until such time as issues raised by the challenges have been resolved pursuant to this part; or

(4) Consolidate such issues with the representation matter for resolution of all issues.

(c) If the Regional Director dismisses the petition and/or denies the request for intervention, the Regional Director shall serve on the petitioner or the party requesting intervention a written statement of the grounds for the dismissal or the denial, and serve a copy of such statement on the Department, and on the petitioner and any intervenors, as appropriate.

(d) The petitioner or party requesting intervention may obtain a review of such dismissal and/or denial by filing a request for review with the Board within twenty-five (25) days after service of the notice of such action. Copies of the request for review shall be served on the Regional Director and the other parties, and a statement of service shall be filed with the request for review. Requests for extensions of time shall be in writing and received by the Board not later than five (5) days before the date the request for review is due. The request for review shall contain a complete statement setting forth facts and reasons upon which the request is based. Any party may file an opposition to a request for review with the Board within ten (10) days after service of the request for review. Copies of the opposition to the request for review shall be served on the Regional Director and the other parties, and a statement of service shall be filed with the opposition to the request for review. The Board may issue a decision or ruling affirming or reversing the Regional Director in whole or in part or making any other disposition of the matter as it deems appropriate.
