
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### § 1422.7 Agreement for consent election.

(a) All parties desiring to participate in an election being conducted pursuant to this section or § 1422.16, including intervenors who have met the requirements of § 1422.5, must sign an agreement providing for such an election on a form prescribed by the Board. An original and one (1) copy of the agreement shall be filed with the Regional Director.

(b) The Department, a petitioner, and any intervenors who have complied with the requirements set forth in § 1422.5 may agree that a secret ballot election shall be conducted among the employees in the unit to determine whether the employees desire to be represented for purposes of exclusive recognition by any or none of the labor organizations involved.

(c) The parties shall agree on the eligibility period for participation in the election, the date(s), hour(s), and place(s) of the election, the designations on the ballot and other related election procedures.

(d) In the event that the parties cannot agree on the matters contained in paragraph (c) of this section, the Regional Director, acting on behalf of the Board, shall decide these matters without prejudice to the right of a party to file objections to the procedural conduct of the election under § 1422.20(b).

(e) If the Regional Director approves the agreement, the election shall be conducted by the Department, as appropriate, under the supervision of the Regional Director, in accordance with § 1422.17.

(f) Any qualified intervenor who refuses to sign an agreement for an election may express its objections to the agreement in writing to the Regional Director. The Regional Director, after careful consideration of such objections, may approve the agreement or take such other action as the Regional Director deems appropriate.
