
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1422 - REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 1422.20 Certification; objections to election; determination on objections and challenged ballots.
###### Provided, however,

(a) The Regional Director shall issue to the parties a certification of results of the election or a certification of representative, where appropriate:That no objections are filed within the time limit set forth below; the challenged ballots are insufficient in number to affect the results of the election; and no rerun election is to be held.

(b) Within twenty (20) days after the tally of ballots has been furnished, a party may file objections to the procedural conduct of the election, or to conduct which may have improperly affected the results of the election, setting forth a clear and concise statement of the reasons therefor. The objecting party shall bear the burden of proof at all stages of the proceeding regarding all matters raised in its objections. An original and two (2) copies of the objections shall be filed with the Regional Director and copies shall be served on the parties. A statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director. Such filing must be timely whether or not the challenged ballots are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election. Within ten (10) days after the filing of the objections, unless an extension of time has been granted by the Regional Director, the objecting party shall file with the Regional Director evidence, including signed statements, documents and other material supporting the objections.

(c) If objections are filed or challenged ballots are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election, the Regional Director shall investigate the objections or challenged ballots, or both.

(d) When the Regional Director determines that no relevant question of fact exists, the Regional Director (1) shall find whether improper conduct occurred of such a nature as to warrant the setting aside of the election and, if so, indicate an intention to set aside the election, or (2) shall rule on determinative challenged ballots, if any, or both. The Regional Director shall issue a report and findings on objections and/or challenged ballots which shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding. Such report and findings shall state therein any additional pertinent matters such as an intent to rerun the election or count ballots at a specified date, time, and place, and if appropriate, that the Regional Director will cause to be issued a revised tally of ballots.

(e) When the Regional Director determines that no relevant question of fact exists, but that a substantial question of interpretation or policy exists, the Regional Director shall notify the parties in the report and findings and transfer the case to the Board in accordance with of this subchapter.
