
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1423 - UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 1423.11 Settlement or adjustment of issues.

(a) At any stage of a proceeding prior to hearing, where time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit, all interested parties shall have the opportunity to submit to the Regional Director with whom the charge was filed, for consideration, all facts and arguments concerning offers of settlement, or proposals of adjustment.

(b)(1) Prior to the issuance of any complaint or the taking of other formal action, the Regional Director will afford the charging party and the respondent a reasonable period of time in which to enter into an informal settlement agreement to be approved by the Regional Director. Upon approval by the Regional Director and compliance with the terms of the informal settlement agreement, no further action shall be taken in the case. If the respondent fails to perform its obligations under the informal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may determine to institute further proceedings.

(2) In the event that the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to an informal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, if the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director and the latter shall decline to issue a complaint. The charging party may obtain a review of the Regional Director's action by filing an appeal with the General Counsel in accordance with ยง 1423.10(c). The General Counsel shall take action on such appeal as set forth in ยง 1423.10(e).

(c) Consistent with the policy reflected in paragraph (a) of this section, even after the issuance of a complaint, the Board favors the settlement of issues. Such settlements may be either informal or formal. Informal settlement agreements shall be accomplished as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Formal settlement agreements are subject to the approval of the Board. In such formal settlement agreements, the parties shall agree to waive their right to a hearing and agree further that the Board may issue an order requiring the respondent to take action appropriate to the terms of the settlement. Ordinarily the formal settlement agreement also contains the respondent's consent to the Board application for the entry of a decree by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia enforcing the Board's order.

(d)(1) If, after issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, the charging party and the respondent enter into a formal settlement agreement, and such agreement is accepted by the Regional Director, the formal settlement agreement shall be submitted to the Board for approval.

(2) If, after issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director. The charging party will be so informed and provided a brief written statement by the Regional Director of the reasons therefor. The formal settlement agreement together with the charging party's objections, if any, and the Regional Director's written statements, shall be submitted to the Board for approval. The Board may approve or disapprove any formal settlement agreement or return the case to the Regional Director for other appropriate action.

(3) After the issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, if the Regional Director concludes that it will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director may withdraw the complaint and approve an informal settlement agreement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(e)(1) After issuance of a complaint and after opening of the hearing, if the Regional Director concludes that it will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge for permission to withdraw the complaint and, having been granted such permission to withdraw the complaint, may approve an informal settlement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) If, after issuance of a complaint and after opening of the hearing, the parties enter into a formal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Board for approval.

(3) If the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director. After the charging party is given an opportunity to state on the record or in writing the reasons for opposing the formal settlement, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Board for approval. The Board may approve or disapprove any formal settlement agreement or return the case to the Administrative Law Judge for another appropriate action.
