
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1423 - UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 1423.22 Motions.
###### Rulings on motions.

(b)(1) Regional Directors may rule on all motions filed with them before the hearing, or they may refer them to the Chief Administrative Law Judge.

(2) Except by special permission of the Board, and in view of ยง 1429.11 of this subchapter, rulings by the Regional Director shall not be appealed prior to the transmittal of the case to the Board, but shall be considered by the Board when the case is transmitted to it for decision.

(3) Administrative Law Judges may rule on motions referred to them prior to the hearing and on motions filed after the beginning of the hearing and before the transmittal of the case to the Board. Such motions may be ruled upon by the Chief Administrative Law Judge in the absence of an Administrative Law Judge.

(4) Except by special permission of the Board, and in view of ยง 1429.11 of this subchapter, rulings by Administrative Law Judges shall not be appealed prior to the transmittal of the case to the Board, but shall be considered by the Board when the case is transmitted to it for decision. In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, the hearing may be continued or adjourned pending any such request for special permission to appeal.
