
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1429 - MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 1429.7 Subpoenas.

(a) Any member of the Board, the General Counsel, any Administrative Law Judge appointed by the Board under 5 U.S.C. 3105, and any Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or other employee of the Board designated by the Board may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence. However, no subpoena shall be issued under this section which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management.

(b) Where the parties are in agreement that the appearance of witnesses or the production of documents is necessary, and such witnesses agree to appear, no such subpoena need be sought.

(c) A request for a subpoena by any person, as defined in 22 U.S.C. 4102 shall be in writing and filed with the Regional Director, in proceedings arising under parts 1422 and 1423 of this subchapter, or filed with the Board, in proceedings arising under parts 1424 and 1425 of this subchapter, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the opening of a hearing, or with the appropriate presiding official(s) during the hearing.

(d) All requests shall name and identify the witnesses or documents sought, and state the reasons therefor. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall grant the request upon the determination that the testimony or documents appear to be necessary to the matters under investigation and the request describes with sufficient particularity the documents sought. Service of an approved subpoena is the responsibility of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. The subpoena shall show on its face the name and address of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.

(e) Any person served with a subpoena who does not intend to comply, shall, within five (5) days after the date of service of the subpoena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpoena. A copy of any petition to revoke a subpoena shall be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. Such petition to revoke, if made prior to the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Regional Director, who may refer the petition to the Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, for ruling. A petition to revoke a subpoena filed during the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the appropriate presiding official(s). The Regional Director, or the appropriate presiding official(s) will, as a matter of course, cause a copy of the petition to revoke to be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, but shall not be deemed to assume responsibility for such service. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall revoke the subpoena if the evidence the production of which is required does not relate to any matter under investigation or in question in the proceedings, or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is invalid. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall make a simple statement of procedural or other ground for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke, any answer thereto, and any ruling thereon shall not become part of the official record except upon the request of the party aggrieved by the ruling.

(f) Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued, upon the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, the General Counsel shall, on behalf of such party, institute proceedings in the appropriate district court for the enforcement thereof, unless, in the judgment of the General Counsel, the enforcement of such subpoena would be inconsistent with law and the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. The General Counsel shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed responsibility for the effective prosecution of the same before the court thereafter.
