
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1429 - MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 1429.24 Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.

(a) A document submitted to the Board pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the Board at the address set forth in appendix A to this chapter XIV.

(b) A document submitted to the General Counsel pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the General Counsel at the address set forth in appendix A.

(c) A document submitted to a Regional Director pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate regional office, as set forth in appendix A.

(d) A document submitted to an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate Administrative Law Judge, as set forth in appendix A.

(e) All documents filed pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section shall be filed by certified mail or in person, or if the filing party is outside the United States, by the most appropriate available means.

(f) All matters filed under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section shall be printed, typed, or otherwise legibly duplicated: Carbon copies of typewritten matter will be accepted if they are clearly legible.

(g) Documents in any proceedings under this subchapter, including correspondence, shall show the title of the proceeding and the case number, if any.

(h) The original of each document required to be filed under this subchapter shall be signed by the party or by an attorney or representative of record for the party, or by an officer of the party, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the person signing it.

(i) A return postal receipt may serve as acknowledgement of receipt by the Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer, as appropriate. The receiving officer will otherwise acknowledge receipt of documents filed only when the filing party so requests and includes an extra copy of the document or its transmittal letter which the receiving office will date stamp upon receipt and return. If return is to be made by mail, the filing party shall include a self-addressed, stamped envelope for the purpose.
