
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XIV - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
### Subchapter C - Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
#### PART 1429 - MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 1429.27 Service; statement of service.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 1423.10 (c) and (d), any party filing a document as provided in this subchapter is responsible for serving a copy upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, upon parties not so represented, and upon any interested person who has been granted permission by the Board pursuant to ยง 1429.9 to present written and/or oral argument as amicus curiae. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.

(b) Service of any document or paper under this subchapter, by any party, including documents and papers served by one party on another, shall be made by certified mail or in person. A return post office receipt or other written receipt executed by the party or person served shall be proof of service.

(c) A signed and dated statement of service shall be submitted at the time of filing. The statement of service shall include the names of the parties and persons served, their addresses, the date of service, the nature of the document served, and the manner in which service was made.

(d) The date of service or date served shall be in the day when the matter served is deposited in the U.S. mail or is delivered in person. When service is to be made to an addressee outside the United States, the date of service shall be the date received, as evidenced by official receipt.
