
# Title 22 - Foreign Relations
## Chapter XV - African Development Foundation
### PART 1506 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
#### Subpart C - Administrative Offset
##### ยง 1506.22 Am I entitled to notice and hearing prior to salary offset?
###### Due process requirements-Notice, hearing, written response and decision.

(a)(1) Prior to initiating collection action through salary offset, the Agency will provide all employees that owe a debt to the Government an opportunity to repay in full the amount owed, unless such opportunity will compromise the Government's ultimate ability to collect the debt.

(2) Except as provided otherwise, each employee from whom the Agency proposes to collect a debt by salary offset will receive a written notice 30 days prior to any deductions from pay. The notification will include the Agency's determination that a debt is owed, the amount of the debt, the Agency's intention to collect the debt by means of deductions from the employee's pay account, and the employee's right to request a hearing on the claim.

(3) An employee facing collection of debt by salary offset is entitled to request a hearing on the claim. The request must be filed in writing and signed by the employee. It must be received by the Agency within 15 days of the employee's receipt of the notification of proposed deduction. Late request for a hearing may be accepted if the employee can show that the delay in filing the request was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.

(4) The Agency will make hearing arrangements that are consistent with law and regulations. Where a hearing is held, the employee is entitled to a written decision on the following:

(i) A determination of the Agency concerning the existence and amount of the debt; and

(ii) A repayment schedule.
