
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart E - Discovery and Compulsory Process
###### ยง 210.34 Protective orders; reporting requirement; sanctions and other actions.
####### Violation of protective order.

(c)(1) The issue of whether sanctions should be imposed may be raised on a motion by a party, the administrative law judge's own motion, or the Commission's own initiative in accordance with ยง 210.25(a)(2). Parties, including the party that identifies an alleged breach or makes a motion for sanctions, and the Commission shall treat the identity of the alleged breacher as confidential business information unless the Commission issues a public sanction. The identity of the alleged breacher means the name of any individual against whom allegations are made. The Commission and the administrative law judge may permit the parties to file written submissions or present oral argument on the issues of the alleged violation of the protective order and sanctions.

(2) If the breach occurs while the investigation is before an administrative law judge, any determination on sanctions of the type enumerated in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section shall be in the form of a recommended determination. The Commission may then consider both the recommended determination and any related orders in making a determination on sanctions. When the motion is addressed to the administrative law judge for sanctions of the type enumerated in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, he shall grant or deny a motion by issuing an order.

(3) Any individual who has agreed to be bound by the terms of a protective order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and who is determined to have violated the terms of the protective order, may be subject to one or more of the following:

(i) An official reprimand by the Commission;

(ii) Disqualification from or limitation of further participation in a pending investigation;

(iii) Temporary or permanent disqualification from practicing in any capacity before the Commission pursuant to ยง 201.15(a) of this chapter;

(iv) Referral of the facts underlying the violation to the appropriate licensing authority in the jurisdiction in which the individual is licensed to practice;

(v) Sanctions of the sort enumerated in ยง 210.33(b), or such other action as may be appropriate.
