
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart G - Determinations and Actions Taken
###### § 210.43 Petitions for review of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.
####### Filing of the petition.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any party to an investigation may request Commission review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1) or (c), § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(b)(3) by filing a petition with the Secretary. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1) must be filed within 12 days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(3) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(c) that terminates the investigation in its entirety on summary determination, or an initial determination issued under § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(b)(3), must be filed within 10 days after service of the initial determination. Petitions for review of all other initial determinations under § 210.42(c) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.50(d)(3) or § 210.70(c) must be filed within 10 days after service of the initial determination.

(2) A party may not petition for review of any issue as to which the party has been found to be in default. Similarly, a party or proposed respondent who did not file a response to the motion addressed in the initial determination may be deemed to have consented to the relief requested and may not petition for review of the issues raised in the motion.
