
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart G - Determinations and Actions Taken
###### ยง 210.43 Petitions for review of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.
####### Content of the petition.

(b)(1) A petition for review filed under this section shall identify the party seeking review and shall specify the issues upon which review of the initial determination is sought, and shall, with respect to each such issue, specify one or more of the following grounds upon which review is sought:

(i) That a finding or conclusion of material fact is clearly erroneous;

(ii) That a legal conclusion is erroneous, without governing precedent, rule or law, or constitutes an abuse of discretion; or

(iii) That the determination is one affecting Commission policy.

(2) The petition for review must set forth a concise statement of the facts material to the consideration of the stated issues, and must present a concise argument providing the reasons that review by the Commission is necessary or appropriate to resolve an important issue of fact, law, or policy. If a petition filed under this paragraph exceeds 50 pages in length, it must be accompanied by a summary of the petition not to exceed ten pages. Petitions for review may not exceed 100 pages in length, exclusive of the summary and any exhibits. Petitions for review may not incorporate statements, issues, or arguments by reference. Any issue not raised in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned by the petitioning party and may be disregarded by the Commission in reviewing the initial determination (unless the Commission chooses to review the issue on its own initiative under ยง 210.44), and any argument not relied on in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.

(3) Any petition designated by the petitioner as a "contingent" petition for review shall be deemed to be a petition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall be processed accordingly. In order to preserve an issue for review by the Commission or the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that was decided adversely to a party, the issue must be raised in a petition for review, whether or not the Commission's determination on the ultimate issue, such as a violation of section 337, was decided adversely to the party.

(4) A party's failure to file a petition for review of an initial determination shall constitute abandonment of all issues decided adversely to that party in the initial determination.
