
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart G - Determinations and Actions Taken
###### § 210.50 Commission action, the public interest, and bonding by respondents.
####### Forfeiture or return of respondents' bonds.

(d)(1)(i) If one or more respondents posts a bond pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1337(e)(1) or 1337(j)(3), proceedings to determine whether a respondent's bond should be forfeited to a complainant in whole or part may be initiated upon the filing of a motion, addressed to the administrative law judge who last presided over the investigation, by a complainant within 90 days after the expiration of the period of Presidential review under 19 U.S.C. 1337(j), or if an appeal is taken from the determination of the Commission, within 30 days after the resolution of the appeal. If that administrative law judge is no longer employed by the Commission, the motion shall be addressed to the chief administrative law judge.

(ii) A respondent may file a motion addressed to the administrative law judge who last presided over the investigation for the return of its bond within 90 days after the expiration of the Presidential review period under 19 U.S.C. 1337(j), or if an appeal is taken from the determination of the Commission, within 30 days after the resolution of the appeal. If that administrative law judge is no longer employed by the Commission, the motion shall be addressed to the chief administrative law judge.

(2) Any nonmoving party may file a response to a motion filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 15 days after filing of the motion, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(3) A motion for forfeiture or return of a respondent's bond in whole or part will be adjudicated by the administrative law judge in an initial determination with a 45-day effective date, which shall be subject to review under the provisions of §§ 210.42 through 210.45. In determining whether to grant the motion, the administrative law judge and the Commission will be guided by practice under Rule 65 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (taking into account that the roles of the parties are reversed in this instance).

(4) If the Commission determines that a respondent's bond should be forfeited to a complainant, and if the bond is being held by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Commission Secretary shall promptly notify the Secretary of the Treasury of the Commission's determination.
