
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart H - Temporary Relief
###### § 210.52 Motions for temporary relief.

Requests for temporary relief under section 337 (e) or (f) of the Tariff Act of 1930 shall be made through a motion filed in accordance with the following provisions:

(a) A complaint requesting temporary relief shall be accompanied by a motion setting forth the complainant's request for such relief. In determining whether to grant temporary relief, the Commission will apply the standards the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit uses in determining whether to affirm lower court decisions granting preliminary injunctions. The motion for temporary relief accordingly must contain a detailed statement of specific facts bearing on the factors the Federal Circuit has stated that a U.S. District Court must consider in granting a preliminary injunction.

(b) The motion must also contain a detailed statement of facts bearing on:

(1) Whether the complainant should be required to post a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief; and

(2) The appropriate amount of the bond, if the Commission determines that a bond will be required.

(c) In determining whether to require a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief, the Commission will be guided by practice under Rule 65 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(d) The following documents and information also shall be filed along with the motion for temporary relief:

(1) A memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion;

(2) Affidavits executed by persons with knowledge of the facts asserted in the motion; and

(3) All documents, information, and other evidence in complainant's possession that complainant intends to submit in support of the motion.

(e) If the complaint, the motion for temporary relief, or the documentation supporting the motion for temporary relief contains confidential business information as defined in § 201.6(a) of this chapter, the complainant must follow the procedure outlined in §§ 210.4(a), 210.5(a), 201.6 (a) and (c), 210.8(a), and 210.55 of this part.
