
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart H - Temporary Relief
###### § 210.59 Responses to the motion and the complaint.

(a) Any party may file a response to a motion for temporary relief. Unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, a response to a motion for temporary relief in an ordinary investigation must be filed not later than 10 days after service of the motion by the Commission. In a "more complicated" investigation, the response shall be due within 20 days after such service, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding administrative law judge.

(b) The response must comply with the requirements of §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, and shall contain the following information:

(1) A statement that sets forth with particularity any objection to the motion for temporary relief;

(2) A statement of specific facts concerning the factors the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit would consider in determining whether to affirm lower court decisions granting or denying preliminary injunctions;

(3) A memorandum of points and authorities in support of the respondent's response to the motion;

(4) Affidavits, where possible, executed by persons with knowledge of the facts specified in the response. Each response to the motion must address, to the extent possible, the complainant's assertions regarding whether a bond should be required and the appropriate amount of the bond. Responses to the motion for temporary relief also may contain counter-proposals concerning the amount of the bond or the manner in which the bond amount should be calculated.

(c) Each response to the motion for temporary relief must also be accompanied by a response to the complaint and notice of investigation. Responses to the complaint and notice of investigation must comply with §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, and any protective order issued by the administrative law judge under § 210.34 of this part.
