
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart I - Enforcement Procedures and Advisory Opinions
###### ยง 210.76 Modification or rescission of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, consent orders, and seizure and forfeiture orders.
####### Petitions for modification or rescission of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, and consent orders.

(a)(1) Whenever any person believes that changed conditions of fact or law, or the public interest, require that an exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order be modified or set aside, in whole or in part, such person may request, pursuant to section 337(k)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, that the Commission make a determination that the conditions which led to the issuance of an exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order no longer exist. The Commission may also on its own initiative consider such action. The request shall state the changes desired and the changed circumstances or public interest warranting such action, shall include materials and argument in support thereof, and shall be served on all parties to the investigation in which the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order was issued. Any person may file an opposition to the petition within 10 days of service of the petition. If the Commission makes such a determination, it shall notify the Secretary of the Treasury and U.S. Custom and Border Protection.

(2) If the petitioner previously has been found by the Commission to be in violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and if its petition requests a Commission determination that the petitioner is no longer in violation of that section or requests modification or rescission of an order issued pursuant to section 337 (d), (e), (f), (g), or (i) of the Tariff Act of 1930, the burden of proof in any proceeding initiated in response to the petition pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be on the petitioner. In accordance with section 337(k)(2) of the Tariff Act, relief may be granted by the Commission with respect to such petition on the basis of new evidence or evidence that could not have been presented at the prior proceeding or on grounds that would permit relief from a judgment or order under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(3) If the petition requests modification or rescission of an order issued pursuant to section 337(d), (e), (f), (g), or (i) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of a licensing or other settlement agreement, the petition shall contain copies of the licensing or other settlement agreements, any supplemental agreements, any documents referenced in the petition or attached agreements, and a statement that there are no other agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation. If the licensing or other settlement agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of ยง 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge or the Commission may limit the service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney.
