
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart I - Enforcement Procedures and Advisory Opinions
###### ยง 210.76 Modification or rescission of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, consent orders, and seizure and forfeiture orders.
####### Commission action upon receipt of petition.

(b)The Commission may thereafter institute a proceeding to modify or rescind the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order by issuing a notice. The Commission may hold a public hearing and afford interested persons the opportunity to appear and be heard. After consideration of the petition, any responses thereto, and any information placed on the record at a public hearing or otherwise, the Commission shall take such action as it deems appropriate. The Commission may delegate any hearing under this section to the chief administrative law judge for designation of a presiding administrative law judge, who shall certify a recommended determination to the Commission.

(1) The determination of whether to institute shall be made within 30 days after the petition is filed, unless-

(i) Exceptional circumstances preclude adherence to a 30-day deadline;

(ii) The petitioner requests that the Commission postpone the determination on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding; or

(iii) The petitioner withdraws the petition.

(2) If exceptional circumstances preclude Commission adherence to the 30-day deadline for determining whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding on the basis of the petition, the determination will be made as soon after that deadline as possible.

(3) If the petitioner desires to have the Commission postpone making a determination on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding in response to the petition, the petitioner must file a written request with the Secretary. If the request is granted, the determination will be rescheduled for a date that is appropriate in light of the facts.

(4) The petitioner may withdraw the complaint as a matter of right at any time before the Commission votes on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding. To effect such withdrawal, the petitioner must file a written notice with the Commission.

(5) The Commission shall institute a modification or rescission proceeding by publication of a notice in theThe notice will define the scope of the modification or rescission proceeding and may be amended by leave of the Commission.
