
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart A - Scope and Definitions
##### § 351.103 Central Records Unit and Administrative Protective Order and Dockets Unit.
###### Filing of documents with the Department.

(c)No document will be considered as having been received by the Secretary unless it is electronically filed in accordance with § 351.303(b)(2)(i) or, where applicable, in accordance with § 351.303(b)(2)(ii), it is manually submitted to the Enforcement and Compliance's APO/Dockets Unit in Room 18022 and is stamped with the date, and, where necessary, the time, of receipt. A manually filed document must be submitted with a cover sheet, in accordance with § 351.303(b)(3).

(d) The APO/Dockets Unit will maintain and make available a public service list for each segment of a proceeding. The service list for an application for a scope ruling is described in § 351.225(n). The service list for a request for a circumvention inquiry is described in § 351.226(n).

(1) With the exception of a petitioner filing a petition in an investigation pursuant to § 351.202, an interested party filing a scope ruling application pursuant to § 351.225(c), an interested party filing a request for a circumvention inquiry pursuant to § 351.226(c), and those relevant parties identified by the Customs Service in a covered merchandise referral pursuant to § 351.227, all persons wishing to participate in a segment of a proceeding must file an entry of appearance. The entry of appearance must identify the name of the interested party, how that party qualifies as an interested party under § 351.102(b)(29) and section 771(9) of the Act, and the name of the firm, if any, representing the interested party in that particular segment of the proceeding. All persons who file an entry of appearance and qualify as an interested party will be included in the public service list for the segment of the proceeding in which the entry of appearance is submitted. The entry of appearance may be filed as a cover letter to an application for APO access. If the representative of the interested party is not requesting access to business proprietary information under APO, the entry of appearance must be filed separately from any other document filed with the Department. If the interested party is a coalition or association as defined in subparagraph (A), (E), (F) or (G) of section 771(9) of the Act, the entry of appearance must identify all of the members of the coalition or association.

(2) Each interested party that asks to be included on the public service list for a segment of a proceeding must designate a person to receive service of documents filed in that segment.
