
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### ยง 351.225 Scope rulings.
###### Requested information.

(2)To the extent reasonably available to the applicant, the scope ruling application must include the following requested information and relevant supporting documentation.

(i) A detailed description of the product and its uses, as necessary:

(A) The physical characteristics (including chemical, dimensional, and technical characteristics) of the product;

(B) The country(ies) where the product is produced, the country from where the product is exported, and if imported, the declared country of origin;

(C) The product's tariff classification under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and copies of any Customs rulings relevant to the tariff classification;

(D) The uses of the product;

(E) Clear and legible photographs, schematic drawings, specifications, standards, marketing materials, and any other exemplars providing a visual depiction of the product; and

(F) A description of parts, materials, and the production process employed in the production of the product;

(ii) A concise public summary of the product's description under paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(iii) The name and address of the producer, exporter, and importer of the product.

(iv) A narrative history of the production of the product at issue, including a history of earlier versions of the product if this is not the first model of the product.

(v) The volume of annual production of the product for the most recently completed fiscal year.

(vi) If the product has been imported into the United States as of the date of the filing of the scope ruling application:

(A) An explanation as to whether an entry of the product has been declared by an importer, or determined by the Customs Service, as subject to an order, and

(B) Relevant documentation, including dated copies of the Customs Service entry summary forms (or electronic entry processing system documentation) identifying the product upon importation and other related commercial documents, including invoices and contracts, which reflect the details surrounding the sale and purchase of that imported product.

(vii) A statement as to whether the product undergoes any additional processing in the United States after importation, or in a third country before importation, and a statement as to the relevance of this processing to the scope of the order.

(viii) The applicant's statement as to whether the product is covered by the scope of the order, including:

(A) An explanation with specific reference to paragraph (j) and (k) of this section, as appropriate;

(B) Citations to any applicable legal authority; and

(C) Whether there are companion orders as described in paragraph (m)(2) of this section.

(ix) Factual information supporting the applicant's position, including full copies of prior scope determinations and relevant excerpts of other documents identified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
