
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### ยง 351.225 Scope rulings.
###### Scope inquiry procedures.

(f)(1) Within 30 days of the Secretary's self-initiation of a scope inquiry under paragraph (b) of this section, interested parties are permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information addressing the self-initiation. Within 14 days of the filing of such comments, any interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted by the other interested parties.

(2) Within 30 days of the initiation of a scope inquiry under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an interested party other than the applicant is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the scope ruling application. Within 14 days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the applicant is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction.

(3) Following initiation of a scope inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, the Secretary may issue questionnaires and verify submissions received, where appropriate. The Secretary may limit issuance of questionnaires to a reasonable number of respondents. Questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary. Within 14 days after a questionnaire response has been filed with the Secretary, an interested party other than the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the questionnaire response. Within seven days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction.

(4) If the Secretary issues a preliminary scope ruling under paragraph (g) of this section, which is not issued concurrently with the initiation of the scope inquiry, the Secretary will establish a schedule for the filing of scope comments and rebuttal comments. Unless otherwise specified, any interested party may submit scope comments within 14 days after the issuance of the preliminary scope ruling, and any interested party may submit rebuttal comments within 7 days thereafter. Unless otherwise specified, no new factual information will be accepted in the scope or rebuttal comments.

(5) If the Secretary issues a preliminary scope ruling concurrently with the initiation of a scope inquiry under paragraph (g) of this section, paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section will not apply. In such a situation, the Secretary will establish appropriate procedures on a case-specific basis.

(6) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may rescind, in whole or in part, a scope inquiry under this section and will notify interested parties.

(7) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may alter or extend any time limits under this paragraph or establish a separate schedule for the filing of comments and/or factual information during the scope inquiry.
