
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### ยง 351.225 Scope rulings.
###### Service of scope ruling application; annual inquiry service list; entry of appearance.

(n)(1) The requirements of ยง 351.303(f) apply to this section, except that an interested party that submits a scope ruling application under paragraph (c) of this section must serve a copy of the application on all persons on the annual inquiry service list for that order, as well as the companion order, if any, as described in paragraph (m)(2) of this section. If a scope ruling application is rejected and resubmitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, service of the resubmitted application is not required under this paragraph, unless otherwise specified.

(2) For purposes of this section, the "annual inquiry service list" will include the petitioner(s) and those parties that file a request for inclusion on the annual inquiry service list for a proceeding, in accordance with the Secretary's established procedures.

(3) A new "annual inquiry service list" will be established on a yearly basis. Parties filing a request for inclusion on that list must file a request during the anniversary month of the publication of the antidumping or countervailing duty order. Only the petitioner and the government of the foreign country at issue in an antidumping or countervailing duty order will be automatically placed on the new annual inquiry service list once the previous year's list has been replaced.

(4) Once a scope inquiry has been self-initiated or a scope ruling application is accepted by the Secretary, a segment-specific service list will be established and the requirements of ยง 351.303(f) will apply. Parties other than the scope ruling applicant under paragraph (c) of this section that wish to participate in the scope inquiry must file an entry of appearance in accordance with ยง 351.103(d)(1).
