
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### ยง 351.226 Circumvention inquiries.
###### Contents of request.

(2)To the extent reasonably available to the requestor, a circumvention inquiry request must include the following requested information under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and relevant supporting documentation:

(i) A detailed description of the merchandise allegedly circumventing the antidumping or countervailing duty order, including:

(A) The physical characteristics (including chemical, dimensional or technical characteristics) of the product;

(B) The country(ies) where the product is produced, the country from where it is exported, and the declared country of origin;

(C) The product's tariff classification under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and copies of any Customs rulings relevant to the tariff classification;

(D) The uses of the product;

(E) Clear and legible photographs, schematic drawings, specifications, standards, marketing materials, and any other exemplars providing a visual depiction of the product; and

(F) A description of parts, materials, and the production process employed in the production of the product.

(ii) A concise public summary of the product's description under paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(iii) The name and address of the producer, exporter, and importer of the product. If the full universe of parties allegedly circumventing the order(s) is unknown, then examples are sufficient.

(iv) A statement of the requestor's position as to the nature of the alleged circumvention under section 781 of the Act, such as a description of the procedures, channels of trade, and foreign countries involved (including a description of the processes occurring in each country), as appropriate.

(v) A statement of the requestor's position as to whether the circumvention inquiry, if initiated, should be conducted on a country-wide basis.

(vi) Factual information supporting this position, including import and export data relevant to the merchandise allegedly circumventing the antidumping or countervailing duty order.
