
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### ยง 351.226 Circumvention inquiries.
###### Circumvention inquiry procedures.

(f)(1) Within 30 days of the publication of the notice of the Secretary's self-initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) of this section, interested parties are permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information addressing the self-initiation. Within 14 days of the filing of such comments, any interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted by the other interested parties.

(2) Within 30 days of the publication of the notice of initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (d) of this section, an interested party other than the requestor is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the request. Within 14 days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the requestor is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction.

(3) Following initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, the Secretary may issue questionnaires and verify submissions received, where appropriate. The Secretary may limit issuance of questionnaires to a reasonable number of respondents. Questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary. Within 14 days after a questionnaire response has been filed with the Secretary, an interested party other than the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the questionnaire response. Within 7 days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction.

(4) If the Secretary issues a preliminary circumvention determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, which is not issued concurrently with the initiation of the circumvention inquiry, the Secretary will establish a schedule for the filing of comments and rebuttal comments. Unless otherwise specified, any interested party may submit comments within 14 days after the issuance of the preliminary circumvention determination, and any interested party may submit rebuttal comments within 7 days thereafter. Unless otherwise specified, no new factual information will be accepted in the comments or rebuttal comments.

(5) If the Secretary issues a preliminary circumvention determination concurrently with the initiation of the circumvention inquiry under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) will not apply. In such a situation, the Secretary will establish appropriate procedures on a case-specific basis.

(6) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may rescind, in whole or in part, a circumvention inquiry, under this section and will notify interested parties. Situations in which the Secretary may rescind a circumvention inquiry include:

(i) The requestor timely withdraws its request for a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (c) of this section;

(ii) The Secretary issues a final determination in another segment of a proceeding, and has determined that the merchandise at issue in the circumvention inquiry is covered by the scope of the antidumping or countervailing duty order;

(iii) The Secretary has initiated a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section to examine circumvention under two or more provisions under paragraph (h), (i), (j), or (k) of this section, and determines that it is not necessary to issue a final circumvention determination with respect to one of those paragraphs. For example, if the Secretary initiates a circumvention inquiry to examine whether merchandise is altered in minor respects under paragraph (j) of this section or later-developed merchandise under paragraph (k) of this section, the Secretary may rescind the inquiry in part to address only one of those provisions; or

(iv) The Secretary has initiated a covered merchandise inquiry under ยง 351.227 and determined that it can address the necessary elements for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act in that proceeding.

(7) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may alter or extend any time limits under this paragraph or establish a separate schedule for the filing of comments and/or factual information during the circumvention inquiry.

(8)(i) The Secretary will notify the Commission in writing of the proposed inclusion of products in an order prior to issuing a final determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section based on a determination under:

(A) Section 781(a) of the Act (paragraph (h) of this section) with respect to merchandise completed or assembled in the United States (other than minor completion or assembly);

(B) Section 781(b) of the Act (paragraph (i) of this section) with respect to merchandise completed or assembled in other foreign countries; or

(C) Section 781(d) of the Act (paragraph (k) of this section) with respect to later-developed products that incorporate a significant technological advance or significant alteration of an earlier product.

(ii) If the Secretary notifies the Commission under paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section, upon the written request of the Commission, the Secretary will consult with the Commission regarding the proposed inclusion, and any such consultation will be completed within 15 days after the date of such request. If, after consultation, the Commission believes that a significant injury issue is presented by the proposed inclusion of a product within an order, the Commission may provide written advice to the Secretary as to whether the inclusion would be inconsistent with the affirmative injury determination of the Commission on which the order is based.

(9) During the pendency of a circumvention inquiry or upon issuance of a final circumvention determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the Secretary may take any further action, as appropriate, with respect to another segment of the proceeding. For example, if the Secretary considers it appropriate, the Secretary may request information concerning the product that is the subject of the circumvention inquiry for purposes of an administrative review under ยง 351.213.
