
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Procedures
##### § 351.227 Covered merchandise referrals.
###### Introduction.

(a)The Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 contains Title IV-Prevention of Evasion of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Orders (short title "Enforce and Protect Act of 2015" or "EAPA") (Pub. L. 114-125, sections 401, 421, 130 Stat. 122, 155, 161 (2016)). The Enforce and Protect Act of 2015 added section 517 to the Act, which established a new framework by which the Customs Service can conduct civil administrative investigations of potential duty evasion of an antidumping and/or countervailing duty order (referred to herein as an "EAPA investigation"). Section 517(b)(4)(A)(i) of the Act provides a procedure whereby if, during the course of an EAPA investigation, the Customs Service is unable to determine whether the merchandise at issue is covered merchandise within the meaning of section 517(a)(3) of the Act, it shall refer the matter to the Secretary to make such a determination (referred to herein as a "covered merchandise referral"). Section 517(b)(4)(B) of the Act directs the Secretary to determine whether the merchandise is covered merchandise and promptly transmit the determination to the Customs Service. The Secretary will consider a covered merchandise referral and issue a covered merchandise determination in accordance with the rules and procedures in this section. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures as described in subpart C of this part (§§ 351.301 through 351.308 and 351.312 through 351.313) apply to this section.
