
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.301 Time limits for submission of factual information.
###### Introduction.

(a)This section sets forth the time limits for submitting factual information, as defined by ยง 351.102(b)(21). The Department obtains most of its factual information in antidumping and countervailing duty proceedings from submissions made by interested parties during the course of the proceeding. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may request any person to submit factual information at any time during a proceeding or provide additional opportunities to submit factual information. Section 351.302 sets forth the procedures for requesting an extension of such time limits, and provides that, unless expressly precluded by statute, the Secretary may, for good cause, extend any time limit established in the Department's regulations. Section 351.303 contains the procedural rules regarding filing (including procedures for filing on non-business days), format, translation, service, and certification of documents. In the Secretary's written request to an interested party for a response to a questionnaire or for other factual information, the Secretary will specify the following: The time limit for the response; the information to be provided; the form and manner in which the interested party must submit the information; and that failure to submit the requested information in the requested form and manner by the date specified may result in use of the facts available under section 776 of the Act and ยง 351.308.
