
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.301 Time limits for submission of factual information.
###### Factual information submitted in response to questionnaires.

(1)During a proceeding, the Secretary may issue to any person questionnaires, which includes both initial and supplemental questionnaires. The Secretary will not consider or retain in the official record of the proceeding unsolicited questionnaire responses, except as provided under ยง 351.204(d)(2), or untimely filed questionnaire responses. The Secretary will reject any untimely filed or unsolicited questionnaire response and provide, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection (see ยง 351.302(d)).

(i) Initial questionnaire responses are due 30 days from the date of receipt of such questionnaire. The time limit for response to individual sections of the questionnaire, if the Secretary requests a separate response to such sections, may be less than the 30 days allotted for response to the full questionnaire. In general, the date of receipt will be considered to be seven days from the date on which the initial questionnaire was transmitted.

(ii) Supplemental questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary.

(iii) A notification by an interested party, under section 782(c)(1) of the Act, of difficulties in submitting information in response to a questionnaire issued by the Secretary is to be submitted in writing within 14 days after the date of the questionnaire or, if the questionnaire is due in 14 days or less, within the time specified by the Secretary.

(iv) A respondent interested party may request in writing that the Secretary conduct a questionnaire presentation. The Secretary may conduct a questionnaire presentation if the Secretary notifies the government of the affected country and that government does not object.
