
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.301 Time limits for submission of factual information.
###### Factual information not directly responsive to or relating to paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section).

(5)Paragraph (c)(5) applies to factual information other than that described in ยง 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv). The Secretary will reject information filed under paragraph (c)(5) that satisfies the definition of information described in ยง 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv) and that was not filed within the deadlines specified above. All submissions of factual information under this subsection are required to clearly explain why the information contained therein does not meet the definition of factual information described in ยง 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv), and must provide a detailed narrative of exactly what information is contained in the submission and why it should be considered. The deadline for filing such information will be 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination in an investigation, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier, and 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary results in an administrative review, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier.

(i) Upon receipt of factual information under this subsection, the Secretary will issue a memorandum accepting or rejecting the information and, to the extent practicable, will provide written notice stating the reasons for rejection.

(ii) If the Secretary accepts the information, the Secretary will issue a schedule providing deadlines for submission of factual information to rebut, clarify or correct the factual information.
