
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.303 Filing, document identification, format, translation, service, and certification of documents.
###### Document identification.

(4)Each document must be clearly identified as one of the following five document classifications and must conform with the requirements under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Business proprietary document or business proprietary/APO version, as applicable, means a document or a version of a document containing information for which a person claims business proprietary treatment under ยง 351.304.

(i) Business Proprietary Document-May be Released Under APO. This business proprietary document contains single-bracketed business proprietary information that the submitter agrees to release under APO. It must contain the statement "May be Released Under APO" in accordance with the requirements under paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section.

(ii) Business Proprietary Document-May Not be Released Under APO. This business proprietary document contains double-bracketed business proprietary information that the submitter does not agree to release under APO. This document must contain the statement "May Not be Released Under APO" in accordance with the requirements under paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section. This type of document may contain single-bracketed business proprietary information in addition to double-bracketed business proprietary information.

(iii) Business Proprietary/APO Version-May be Released Under APO. In the event that a business proprietary document contains both single- and double-bracketed business proprietary information, the submitting person must submit a version of the document with the double-bracketed business proprietary information omitted. This version must contain the single-bracketed business proprietary information that the submitter agrees to release under APO. This version must be identified as "Business Proprietary/APO Version" and must contain the statement "May be Released Under APO" in accordance with the requirements under paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section.
