
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.303 Filing, document identification, format, translation, service, and certification of documents.
###### Sales files, cost of production files and other electronic databases.

(3)When a submission includes sales files, cost of production files or other electronic databases, such electronic databases must be filed electronically in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If a submitter must file the database manually pursuant to ยง 351.303(b)(2)(ii)(A), the submitter must file such information on the computer medium specified by the Department's request for such information. The submitter need not accompany the computer medium with a paper printout. All electronic database information must be releasable under APO (see ยง 351.305). A submitter need not include brackets in an electronic database containing business proprietary information. The submitter's selection of the security classification "Business Proprietary Document-May Be Released Under APO" at the time of filing indicates the submitter's request for business proprietary treatment of the information contained in the database. Where possible, the submitter must insert headers or footers requesting business proprietary treatment of the information on the databases for printing purposes. A submitter must submit a public version of a database in pdf format. The public version of the database must be publicly summarized and ranged in accordance with ยง 351.304(c).
