
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 351 - ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### Subpart C - Information and Argument
##### ยง 351.303 Filing, document identification, format, translation, service, and certification of documents.
###### i.e.,

(i) For BPI documents submitted with final bracketing on the due date (documents not submitted under the one-day lag rule, paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section), E&C will deem service to be effectuated upon filing of the submission in ACCESS. E&C will notify interested parties that the document has been filed through daily ACCESS BPI Release Digest emails. This paragraph (f)(4)(i) does not apply to service to pro se parties or parties represented by a non-APO-authorized representative.

(ii) For BPI documents submitted under the one-day lag rule, paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, E&C is temporarily waiving the service requirement for bracketing-not-final BPI submissions filed on the due date. In addition, E&C will deem service to be effectuated upon the filing in ACCESS of the complete final BPI document on the next business day under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. This paragraph (f)(4)(ii) does not apply to service to pro se parties or parties represented by a non-APO-authorized representative.

(iii) For case and rebuttal briefs served pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, service of BPI case and rebuttal briefs will be deemed effectuated via ACCESS. This paragraph (f)(4)(iii) does not apply to service to pro se parties or parties represented by a non-APO-authorized representative.

(iv) Parties must still take active steps to serve pro se parties BPI documents containing only the pro se party's BPI and serve parties represented by a non-APO-authorized representative documents containing only that party's BPI, consistent with ยง 351.306(c)(2). However, E&C is temporarily modifying the electronic service provision under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, so that a pro se party may give consent to another interested party to serve a document electronically on that pro se party only, provided that the document only contains the pro se party's BPI. Such a document must not contain the BPI of other parties. In addition, a party represented by a non-APO-authorized representative may give consent to another interested party to serve a document electronically on that non-APO-authorized representative only, provided that the document only contains the BPI of the party represented by that non-APO-authorized representative. Such a document must not contain the BPI of other parties. If such consent is given, then the serving party's APO-authorized representative may serve the submission on that party via electronic transmission with that recipient's consent.
