
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 354 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPOSING SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION OF AN ANTIDUMPING OR COUNTERVAILING DUTY ADMINISTRATIVE PROTECTIVE ORDER
#### ยง 354.7 Charging letter.
##### Contents of Letter.

(a)The Deputy Under Secretary will initiate proceedings by issuing a charging letter to each charged party and affected party which includes:

(1) A statement of the allegation that an administrative protective order has been violated and the basis thereof;

(2) A statement of the proposed sanctions;

(3) A statement that the charged or affected party is entitled to review the documents or other physical evidence upon which the charge is based and the method for requesting access to, or copies of, such documents;

(4) A statement that the charged or affected party is entitled to a hearing before a presiding official if requested within 30 days of the date of service of the charging letter and the procedure for requesting a hearing, including the name, address, and telephone number of the person to contact if there are further questions;

(5) A statement that the charged or affected party has a right, if a hearing is not requested, to submit documentary evidence to the Deputy Under Secretary and an explanation of the method for submitting evidence and the date by which it must be received; and

(6) A statement that the charged or affected party has a right to retain counsel at the party's own expense for purposes of representation.

(b) Settlement and amending the charging letter. The Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade and a charged or affected party may settle a charge brought under this part by mutual agreement at any time after service of the charging letter; approval of the presiding official or the administrative protective order Sanctions Board is not necessary. The charged or affected party may request a hearing but at the same time request that a presiding official not be appointed pending settlement discussions. Settlement agreements may include sanctions for purposes of ยง 354.18. The Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade may amend, supplement, or withdraw the charging letter as follows:

(1) If there has been no request for a hearing, or if supporting information has not been submitted under ยง 354.13, the withdrawal will not preclude future actions on the same alleged violation.

(2) If a hearing has been requested but no presiding official has been appointed, withdrawal of the charging letter will preclude the Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade from seeking sanctions at a later date for the same alleged violation.

(3) The Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade may amend, supplement or withdraw the charging letter at any time after the appointment of a presiding official, if the presiding official determines that the interests of justice would thereby be served. If the presiding official so determines, the presiding official will also determine whether the withdrawal will preclude the Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade from seeking sanctions at a later date for the same alleged violation.
