
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 354 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPOSING SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION OF AN ANTIDUMPING OR COUNTERVAILING DUTY ADMINISTRATIVE PROTECTIVE ORDER
#### ยง 354.8 Interim sanctions.

(a) If the Deputy Under Secretary concludes, after issuing a charging letter under ยง 354.7 and before a final decision is rendered, that interim sanctions are necessary to protect the interests of the Department or others, including the protection of business proprietary information, the Deputy Under Secretary may petition a presiding official to impose such sanctions.

(b) The presiding official may impose interim sanctions against a person upon determining that:

(1) There is probable cause to believe that there was a violation of an administrative protective order and the Department is likely to prevail in obtaining sanctions under this part,

(2) The Department or others are likely to suffer irreparable harm if the interim sanctions are not imposed, and

(3) The interim sanctions are a reasonable means for protecting the rights of the Department or others while preserving to the greatest extent possible the rights of the person against whom the interim sanctions are proposed.

(c) Interim sanctions which may be imposed include any sanctions that are necessary to protect the rights of the Department or others, including, but not limited to:

(1) Denying a person further access to business proprietary information.

(2) Barring a person from representing another person before the International Trade Administration.

(3) Barring a person from appearing before the International Trade Administration, and

(4) Requiring the person to return material previously provided by the Department and all other materials containing the business proprietary information, such as briefs, notes, or charts based on any such information received under an administrative protective order.

(d) The Deputy Under Secretary will notify the person against whom interim sanctions are sought of the request for interim sanctions and provide to that person the material submitted to the presiding official to support the request. The notice will include a reference to the procedures of this section.

(e) A person against whom interim sanctions are proposed has a right to oppose the request through submission of material to the presiding official. The presiding official has discretion to permit oral presentations and to allow further submissions.

(f) The presiding official will notify the parties of the decision on interim sanctions and the basis therefor within five days of the conclusion of oral presentations or the date of final written submissions.

(g) If interim sanctions have been imposed, the investigation and any proceedings under this part will be conducted on an expedited basis.

(h) An order imposing interim sanctions may be revoked at any time by the presiding official and expires automatically upon the issuance of a final order.

(i) The presiding official may reconsider imposition of interim sanctions on the basis of new and material evidence or other good cause shown. The Deputy Under Secretary or a person against whom interim sanctions have been imposed may appeal a decision on interim sanctions to the APO Sanctions Board, if such an appeal is certified by the presiding official as necessary to prevent undue harm to the Department, a person against whom interim sanctions have been imposed or others, or is otherwise in the interests of justice. Interim sanctions which have been imposed remain in effect while an appeal is pending, unless the presiding official determines otherwise.

(j) The Deputy Under Secretary may request a presiding official to impose emergency interim sanctions to preserve the status quo. Emergency interim sanctions may last no longer than 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays. The person against whom such emergency interim sanctions are proposed need not be given prior notice or an opportunity to oppose the request for sanctions. The presiding official may impose emergency interim sanctions upon determining that the Department is, or others are, likely to suffer irreparable harm if such sanctions are not imposed and that the interests of justice would thereby be served. The presiding official will promptly notify a person against whom emergency sanctions have been imposed of the sanctions and their duration.

(k) If a hearing has not been requested, the Deputy Under Secretary will ask the Under Secretary to appoint a presiding official for making determinations under this section.
