
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 356 - PROCEDURES AND RULES FOR ARTICLE 10.12 OF THE UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
#### Subpart D - Violation of a Protective Order or a Disclosure Undertaking
##### ยง 356.28 Reconsideration.

Any party may file a motion for reconsideration with the APO Sanctions Board. The party must state with particularity the grounds for the motion, including any facts or points of law which the party claims the APO Sanctions Board has overlooked or misapplied. The party may file the motion within 30 days of the issuance of the final decision or the adoption of the initial decision as the final decision, except that if the motion is based on the discovery of new and material evidence which was not known, and could not reasonably have been discovered through due diligence prior to the close of the record, the party shall file the motion within 15 days of the discovery of the new and material evidence. The party shall provide a copy of the motion to all other parties. Opposing parties may file a response within 30 days of the date of service of the motion. The response shall be considered as part of the record. The parties have no right to an oral presentation on a motion for reconsideration, but the Board may permit oral argument at its discretion. If the motion to reconsider is granted, the Board will review the record and affirm, modify, or reverse the original decision or remand the matter for further consideration to an administrative law judge or the Deputy Under Secretary, as warranted.
