
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 360 - STEEL IMPORT MONITORING AND ANALYSIS SYSTEM
#### ยง 360.103 Automatic issuance of import licenses.
##### i.e.,

(ii) The first solid state can take the form of either a semi-finished product (slab, billets or ingots) or a finished steel mill product. The location of melt and pour is customarily identified on mill test certificates that are commonplace in steel production, generated at each stage of the production process, and maintained in the ordinary course of business. The reporting requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(xiii) of this section will not apply to raw materials used in the steel manufacturing process (steel scrap; iron ore; pig iron; reduced, processed, or pelletized iron ore; or raw alloys).

(4) Upon completion of the form, the importer, customs broker or the importer's agent will certify as to the accuracy and completeness of the information and submit the form electronically. After refreshing the page, the system will automatically issue a steel import license number. The refreshed form containing the submitted information and the newly issued license number will appear on the screen (the "license form"). Filers can print the license form themselves only at that time. For security purposes, users will not be able to retrieve licenses themselves from the license system at a later date for reprinting. If needed, copies of completed license forms can be requested from Commerce during normal business hours.
