
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 361 - ALUMINUM IMPORT MONITORING AND ANALYSIS SYSTEM
#### ยง 361.103 Automatic issuance of import licenses.
##### e.g.,

(2) Certain fields will be automatically filled out by the automatic license system based on information submitted by the filer (product category, unit value). Filers should review these fields to help confirm the accuracy of the submitted data.

(3)(i) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xiii) of this section:

(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted applies to the country where the largest volume of new aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-H&#xE9;roult process.

(B) Filers may state "not applicable" for this field if the product contains only secondary aluminum and no primary aluminum. Secondary aluminum is defined as aluminum metal that is produced from recycled aluminum scrap through a re-melting process.

(C) For license applications up to June 28, 2022, filers may state "unknown" for this field. Effective June 29, 2022, filers may not state "unknown" for this field.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xiv) of this section:

(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the second largest volume of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the product was smelted applies to the country where the second largest volume of new aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-H&#xE9;roult process.

(B) Filers may state "not applicable" for this field if the product does not contain a second largest volume of primary aluminum or if the product contains only secondary aluminum and no primary aluminum. Secondary aluminum is defined as aluminum metal that is produced from recycled aluminum scrap through a re-melting process.

(C) For license applications up to June 28, 2022, filers may state "unknown" for this field. Effective June 29, 2022, filers may not state "unknown" for this field.

(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(xv) of this section:

(A) The field in the license application requiring identification of the country where the product was most recently cast applies to the country where the aluminum (with or without alloying elements) was last liquified by heat and cast into a solid state. The final solid state can take the form of either a semi-finished product (slab, billets or ingots) or a finished aluminum product.

(B) Filers may not state "not applicable" for this field.

(C) Filers may not state "unknown" for this field.

(4) Upon completion of the form, the importer, customs broker or the importer's agent will certify as to the accuracy and completeness of the information and submit the form electronically. After refreshing the page, the system will automatically issue an aluminum import license number. The refreshed form containing the submitted information and the newly issued license number will appear on the screen (the "license form"). Filers can print the license form themselves only at that time. For security purposes, users will not be able to retrieve licenses themselves from the license system at a later date for reprinting. If needed, copies of completed license forms can be requested from Commerce during normal business hours.
