
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Landing and Delivery of Cargo
##### ยง 4.37 General order.

(a) Any merchandise or baggage regularly landed but not covered by a permit for its release shall be allowed to remain at the place of unlading until the fifteenth calendar day after landing. No later than 20 calendar days after landing, the master or owner of the vessel or the agent thereof shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. Failure to provide such notification may result in assessment of a monetary penalty of up to $1,000 per bill of lading against the master or owner of the vessel or the agent thereof. If the value of the merchandise on the bill is less than $1,000, the penalty shall be equal to the value of such merchandise.

(b) Any merchandise or baggage that is taken into custody from an arriving carrier by any party under a Customs-authorized permit to transfer or in-bond entry may remain in the custody of that party for 15 calendar days after receipt under such permit to transfer or 15 calendar days after arrival at the port of destination. No later than 20 calendar days after receipt under the permit to transfer or 20 calendar days after arrival under bond at the port of destination, the party shall notify Customs of any such merchandise or baggage for which entry has not been made. Such notification shall be provided in writing or by any appropriate Customs-authorized electronic data interchange system. If the party fails to notify Customs of the unentered merchandise or baggage in the allotted time, he may be liable for the payment of liquidated damages under the terms and conditions of his custodial bond (see ยง 113.63(c)(4) of this chapter).
