
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Foreign Clearances
##### ยง 4.61 Requirements for clearance.
###### Application for clearance.

(a)A clearance application for a vessel intending to depart for a foreign port must be made by filing CBP Form 1300 (Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement) executed by the vessel master or other proper officer. The master, licensed deck officer, or purser may appear in person to clear the vessel, or the properly executed CBP Form 1300 may be delivered to the customhouse by the vessel agent or other personal representative of the master. Necessary information may also be transmitted electronically pursuant to a system authorized by CBP. Clearance will be granted by CBP either on the CBP Form 1300 or by approved electronic means. CBP port directors may permit the clearance of vessels at locations other than the customhouse, and at times outside of normal business hours. CBP may take local resources into consideration in allowing clearance to be transacted on board vessels themselves or at other mutually convenient sites and times either within or outside of port limits. CBP must be satisfied that the place designated for clearance is sufficiently under CBP control at the time of clearance, and that the expenses incurred by CBP will be reimbursed as authorized. CBP may require that advance notice of vessel departure be given prior to granting requests for optional clearance locations.
