
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Foreign Clearances
##### ยง 4.61 Requirements for clearance.
###### When clearance required.

(b)Under certain circumstances, American vessels departing from ports of the United States directly for other United States ports must obtain CBP clearance. The clearance of such vessels is required when they have merchandise aboard which is being transported in-bond, or when they have unentered foreign merchandise aboard. For the purposes of the vessel clearance requirements, merchandise transported in-bond does not include bonded ship's stores or supplies. While American vessels transporting unentered foreign merchandise must fully comply with usual clearance procedures, American vessels carrying no unentered foreign merchandise but that have in-bond merchandise aboard may satisfy vessel clearance requirements by reporting intended departure within 72 hours prior thereto by any means of communication that is satisfactory to the local CBP port director, and by presenting a completed CBP Form 1300 (Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement). Also, the CBP officer may require the production of any documents or papers deemed necessary for the proper inspection/examination of the vessel, cargo, passenger, or crew. Report of departure together with providing information to CBP as specified in this paragraph satisfies all clearance requirements for the subject vessels.
