
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Foreign Clearances
##### § 4.61 Requirements for clearance.
###### Verification of compliance.

(c)Before clearance is granted to a vessel bound to a foreign port as provided in § 4.60 and this section, the port director will verify compliance with respect to the following matters:

(1) Accounting for inward cargo (see § 4.62).

(2) Outward Cargo Declarations; Electronic Export Information (EEI) (see § 4.63).

(3) Documentation (see § 4.0(c)).

(4) Verification of nationality and tonnage (see § 4.65).

(5) Verification of inspection (see § 4.66).

(6) Inspection under State laws (46 U.S.C. 60106).

(7) Closed ports or places (see § 4.67).

(8) Passengers (see § 4.68).

(9) Shipping articles and enforcement of Seamen's Act (see § 4.69).

(10) Medicine and slop chests.

(11) Load line regulations (see § 4.65a).

(12) Carriage of United States securities, etc. (46 U.S.C. 60109).

(13) Carriage of mail.

(14) Public Health regulations (see § 4.70).

(15) Inspection of vessels carrying livestock (see § 4.71).

(16) Inspection of meat, meat-food products, and inedible fats (see § 4.72).

(17) Neutrality exportation of arms and munitions (see § 4.73).

(18) Payment of all legal fees that have accrued on the vessel (46 U.S.C. 60107).

(19) Orders restricting shipping (see § 4.74).

(20) Estimated duties deposited or a bond given to cover duties on foreign repairs and equipment for vessels of the United States (see § 4.14).

(21) Illegal discharge of oil (see § 4.66a).

(22) Attached or arrested vessel.

(23) Immigration laws.

(24) Electronic receipt of required vessel cargo information (see § 192.14(c) of this chapter).
