
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Coastwise Procedure
##### § 4.81 Reports of arrivals and departures in coastwise trade.

(a) No vessel which is documented with a coastwise license or registry endorsement or is owned by a citizen and exempt from documentation, and which is in ballast or laden only with domestic products or passengers being carried only between points in the United States shall be required to report arrival or to enter when coming into one port of the United States from any other such port, except as provided for in sections 4.83 and 4.84, nor to obtain a clearance, permit to proceed, or permission to depart when going from one port in the United States to any other such port except when transporting merchandise to a port in noncontinguous territory.

(b) When the facts are as above stated except that the vessel is carrying bonded merchandise, the master shall report its arrival as provided for in § 4.2.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The traveling Crew's Effects Declaration, Customs Form 1304 referred to in § 4.85 (b), (c), and (e) shall be deposited with the port director upon arrival at each port in the United States and finally surrendered to the appropriate Customs officer or director of the port where the vessel first departs directly for a foreign port.

(e) Before any foreign vessel departs in ballast, or solely with articles to be transported in accordance with § 4.93, from any port in the United States for any other such port, the master must apply to the port director for a permit to proceed by filing a Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, Customs Form 1300, in duplicate. If a vessel is proceeding in ballast and therefore the Cargo Declaration (Customs Form 1302) is omitted, the words "No merchandise on board" shall be inserted in item 16 of the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement. However, articles to be transported in accordance with § 4.93 must be manifested on the Cargo Declaration, as required by § 4.93(c). Three copies of the Cargo Declaration must be filed with the port director. When the port director grants the permit by making an appropriate endorsement on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement (see § 4.85(b)), the duplicate copy, together with two copies of the Cargo Declaration covering articles to be transported in accordance with § 4.93, must be returned to the master. The traveling Crew's Effects Declaration, Customs Form 1304, and all unused crewmembers' declarations on Customs Form 5129 will be placed in a sealed envelope addressed to the appropriate Customs officer at the next intended domestic port and returned to the master for delivery. The master must execute a receipt for all unused crewmembers' declarations which are returned to him. Immediately upon arrival at the next United States port the master must report his arrival to the port director. He must make entry within 48 hours by filing with the port director the permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement received at the previous port, a newly executed Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, a Crew's Effects Declaration of all unentered articles acquired abroad by crewmembers which are still on board, a Ship's Stores Declaration, Customs Form 1303, in duplicate of the stores remaining on board, both copies of the Cargo Declaration covering articles transported in accordance with § 4.93, and the document of the vessel. The traveling Crew's Effects Declaration and all unused crewmembers' declarations on Customs Form 5129 returned at the prior port to the master must be delivered by him to the appropriate Customs officer.

(f) The master, licensed deck officer, or purser who enters or clears a vessel, or who obtains permission for a vessel to depart, when required under the provisions of this section or of § 4.82, § 4.84, § 4.85, § 4.87, § 4.89, or § 4.91 of the regulations of this part, may appear in person at the customhouse for that purpose, or any required oaths, related documents, and other papers properly executed by the master or other proper officer may be delivered at the customhouse by the vessel agent or other personal representative of the master.

(g) In lieu of the procedures stated in §§ 4.85 and 4.87 and at the option of the owner or operator, unmanned non-self-propelled barges specifically designed for carriage aboard a vessel and regularly carried aboard a vessel in the foreign trade, hereinafter referred to as LASH-type barges, may move under a simplified permit-to-proceed procedure as follows:

(1) At the port where a LASH-type barge begins a coastwise movement with inward foreign cargo, a permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, Customs Form 1300, must be obtained. A single permit to proceed may be used for all the barges proceeding to the same port of unlading in the same town. An inward foreign manifest of the cargo in each barge, destined to the port of unlading shown on the permit to proceed, must be attached to each permit. At the port of unlading of the barge, report of arrival and entry must be made immediately upon arrival to the appropriate Customs officer by presentation of the permit to proceed, manifests, and a new Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, Customs Form 1300. If only part of the inward foreign cargo is unladen, a new permit to proceed must be obtained and the inward foreign manifests must be attached to it.

(2) At the port where a LASH-type barge begins a coastwise movement with export cargo, a permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300, must be presented to the appropriate CBP officer. A single permit to proceed may be presented for all the barges proceeding from the same port of lading in the same tow. Required Electronic Export Information (EEI) for LASH-type barges must be filed at the port where the barges will be taken aboard a barge-carrying vessel. At the next port, a report of arrival must be made immediately upon arrival and entry must be made within 48 hours by presentation of the permit to proceed received upon departure from the prior port and a newly executed Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300.

(3) When foreign LASH-type barges are proceeding between ports of the United States under paragraph (e) of this section, a single permit to proceed may be used for all the barges proceeding to the same port in the same tow.

(4) In lieu of the master of the towing vessel executing and delivering documents required under permit-to-proceed procedures (see § 4.81(f)) at the port where a LASH-type barge begins a coastwise movement, the master of the towing vessel may designate in writing the owner or operator of the barges as his representative with authority to execute and deliver such documents at the customhouse. The owner or operator of the barges may designate representatives to perform such functions at ports or places where permit-to-proceed documents must be delivered. Documents obtained from Customs officers at one place by such a representative may be forwarded by any suitable means to the representative who must present them to Customs officers at another place, the only requirement being that the forms are properly completed and are presented within the prescribed time periods. Moreover, instead of a written designation from each master of a towing vessel, a blanket designation in writing from the owner or operator of one or more towing vessels on behalf of masters of their towing vessels, designating the owner or operator of the barges to be the representative of the master for purposes of executing and delivering permit-to-proceed documents, is authorized.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) When a LASH-type barge is proceeding to a place in the United States that is not a port of entry, § 101.4(a) and (b) of this chapter are applicable. No merchandise shall be unladen from a LASH-type barge until a permit or special license therefor is obtained in accordance with § 4.30 except that a single permit to unlade may be used for all barges that arrived at the port of unlading in the same tow.
