
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Coastwise Procedure
##### § 4.84 Trade with noncontiguous territory.

(a) No foreign vessel will depart from a port in noncontiguous territory of the United States for any other port in noncontiguous territory or for any port in any State or the District of Columbia, nor from any port in any State or the District of Columbia for any port in noncontiguous territory, until a clearance for the vessel has been granted. Such a clearance will be granted in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 4.61 of the regulations of this part, including clearance of a vessel simultaneously engaged in one or more of the transactions listed in § 4.90(a)(4), (5), or (6) of this part. When merchandise is laden on a foreign vessel in noncontiguous territory other than Puerto Rico, for transportation on that vessel to a port in any State, the District of Columbia, or noncontiguous territory, and when this transportation is not forbidden by the coastwise laws, the merchandise may be laden and shipped without the filing of Electronic Export Information (EEI).

(b) The master of every foreign vessel arriving at a port in any State or the District of Columbia or in noncontiguous territory of the United States from a port in noncontiguous territory to which the coastwise laws do not apply (e.g., Virgin Islands and American Samoa), or arriving at any port in noncontiguous territory to which the coastwise laws do not apply from any place embraced within the coastwise laws, shall immediately report its arrival and make entry for the vessel within 48 hours after its arrival.

(c)(1) A vessel which is not required to clear but which is transporting merchandise from a port in any State or the District of Columbia to any noncontiguous territory of the United States (excluding Puerto Rico), or from Puerto Rico to any State or the District of Columbia, or any other noncontiguous territory, will not be permitted to depart without filing a complete manifest, when required by the Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Regulations (15 CFR part 30), and all required EEI, unless before the vessel departs an approved bond is filed for the timely production of the required documents, as specified in 15 CFR 30.47. Requests for permission to depart may be written or oral and permission to depart will be granted orally by the appropriate CBP officer. However, if the request is to depart prior to the filing of the required manifest and EEI, permission will not be granted unless the appropriate bond is on file. In the latter case, the CBP officer will keep a simplified record of the necessary information in order to assure that the manifest and EEI are filed within the required time period. The Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300 (see § 4.63(a)), required at the time of clearance is not required to be taken to obtain permission to depart.

(2) A vessel which is not required to clear but which is transporting merchandise from a port in any State or the District of Columbia to Puerto Rico must file a complete manifest, when required by the the Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Regulations (15 CFR part 30), and all required EEI within one business day after arrival, as defined in § 4.2(b) of this part, with the appropriate CBP officer in Puerto Rico. If the complete manifest and all required EEI are not filed with the appropriate CBP officer within that time frame, an appropriate bond must be filed with the CBP officer for the timely production of the required documents as specified in 15 CFR 30.47. In these instances when a bond is filed, the CBP officer will keep a simplified record of the necessary information in order to ensure that the manifest and EEI are filed not later than the seventh business day after arrival in Puerto Rico.

(d) Upon arrival of a vessel of the United States at a port in any State, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico from a port in noncontiguous territory other than Puerto Rico, the master must immediately report its arrival and must prepare, produce, and file a Cargo Declaration in the form and manner and at the times specified in §§ 4.7 and 4.9 but will not be required to make entry. If the vessel proceeds directly to another port in any State, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, the master must prepare, produce, and file a Cargo Declaration in the form and manner and at the times specified in § 4.85 but no permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300, will be required for the purposes of this paragraph. No cargo shall be unladen from any such vessel until Cargo Declarations have been filed and a permit to unlade has been issued in accordance with the procedure specified in § 4.30.

(e) No vessel shall bring guano to the United States from a guano island appertaining to the United States (see 48 U.S.C. 1411) unless such a vessel is entitled to engage in the coastwide trade.

(f) No vessel owned by a corporation which qualifies as a citizen under the Act of September 2, 1958 (46 U.S.C. 883-1) shall, while under demise or bareboat charter from such corporation, be granted clearance or permitted to depart in trade with noncontiguous territory.
