
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Coastwise Procedure
##### § 4.89 Vessels in foreign trade proceeding via domestic ports and touching at intermediate foreign ports.

(a) A vessel proceeding from port to port in the United States in accordance with § 4.85, § 4.86, or § 4.87 may touch at an intermediate foreign port or ports to lade or discharge cargo or passengers. In such a case the vessel shall obtain clearance from the last port of departure in the United States before proceeding to the intermediate foreign port or ports at which it is intended to touch. The Cargo Declaration Outward With Commercial Forms, Customs Form 1302-A (see § 4.63), shall show the cargo for such foreign destination in the manner provided in § 4.88(c).

(b) The master shall also present to the port director the Cargo Declaration or Cargo Declarations required by § 4.85, § 4.86, or § 4.87, and obtain a permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, Customs Form 1300, to the next port in the United States at which the vessel will touch.

(c) Upon arrival at the next port in the United States after touching at a foreign port or ports a report of arrival and entry shall be made. The Cargo Declaration, Customs Form 1302, filed at time of entry shall list the cargo laden at the intermediate foreign port or ports.

(d) The master shall also present to the port director the permit to proceed on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, Customs Form 1300, and the Cargo Declaration from the last previous port in the United States as provided for in § 4.85, § 4.86, or § 4.87.
