
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### General
##### ยง 4.94 Yacht privileges and obligations.

(a) Any documented vessel with a pleasure license endorsement, as well as any undocumented American pleasure vessel, shall be used exclusively for pleasure and shall not transport merchandise nor carry passengers for pay. Such a vessel which is not engaged in any trade nor in any way violating the Customs or navigation laws of the U.S. may proceed from port to port in the U.S. or to foreign ports without clearing and is not subject to entry upon its arrival in a port of the U.S., provided it has not visited a hovering vessel, received merchandise while in the customs waters beyond the territorial sea, or received merchandise while on the high seas. Such a vessel shall immediately report arrival to Customs when arriving in any port or place within the U.S., including the U.S. Virgin Islands, from a foreign port or place.

(b) A cruising license may be issued to a yacht of a foreign country only if it has been made to appear to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that yachts of the United States are allowed to arrive at and depart from ports in such foreign country and to cruise in the waters of such ports without entering or clearing at the customhouse thereof and without the payment of any charges for entering or clearing, dues, duty per ton, tonnage, taxes, or charges for cruising licenses. It has been made to appear to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that yachts of the United States are granted such privileges in the following countries:

(c) In order to obtain a cruising license for a yacht of any country listed in paragraph (b) of this section, there shall be filed with the port director an application therefor executed by either the yacht owner or the master which shall set forth the owner's name and address and identify the vessel by flag, rig, name, and such other matters as are usually descriptive of a vessel. The application shall also include a description of the waters in which the yacht will cruise, and a statement of the probable time it will remain in such waters. Upon approval of the application, the port director will issue a cruising license in the form prescribed by paragraph (d) of this section permitting the yacht, for a stated period not to exceed one year, to arrive and depart from the United States and to cruise in specified waters of the United States without entering and clearing, without filing manifests and obtaining or delivering permits to proceed, and without the payment of entrance and clearance fees, or fees for receiving manifests and granting permits to proceed, duty on tonnage, tonnage tax, or light money. The license shall be granted subject to the condition that the vessel shall not engage in trade or violate the laws of the United States in any respect. Upon the vessel's arrival at any port or place within the U.S. or the U.S. Virgin Islands, the master shall comply with 19 U.S.C. 1433 by immediately reporting arrival at the nearest Customs facility or other place designated by the port director. Individuals shall remain on board until directed otherwise by the appropriate Customs officer, as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1459.

(d) Cruising licenses shall be in the following form:

(e) A foreign-flag yacht which is not in possession of a cruising license shall be required to comply with the laws applicable to foreign vessels arriving at, departing from, and proceeding between ports of the United States.
