
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Arrival and Entry of Vessels
##### ยง 4.7 Inward foreign manifest; production on demand; contents and form; advance filing of cargo declaration.

(a) The master of every vessel arriving in the United States and required to make entry must have on board the vessel a manifest, as required by section 431, Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1431), and by this section. The manifest must be legible and complete. If it is in a foreign language, an English translation must be furnished with the original and with any required copies. The required manifest consists of a Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300, and the following documents: (1) Cargo Declaration, CBP Form 1302, (2) Ship's Stores Declaration, CBP Form 1303, and (3) Crew's Effects Declaration, CBP Form 1304, to which are attached crewmembers' declarations on CBP Form 5129, if the articles will be landed in the United States. Unless the exception at 8 CFR 251.1(a)(6) applies and a paper form is submitted, the master must also electronically submit the data elements required on CBP Form I-418 via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP, which will be considered part of the manifest. Any document which is not required may be omitted from the manifest provided the word "None" is inserted in items 16, 18, and/or 19 of the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, as appropriate. If a vessel arrives in ballast and therefore the Cargo Declaration is omitted, the legend "No merchandise on board" must be inserted in item 16 of the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement.

(b)(1) With the exception of any Cargo Declaration that has been filed in advance as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the original and one copy of the manifest must be ready for production on demand. The master shall deliver the original and one copy of the manifest to the CBP officer who shall first demand it. If the vessel is to proceed from the port of arrival to other United States ports with residue foreign cargo or passengers, an additional copy of the manifest shall be available for certification as a traveling manifest (see ยง 4.85). The port director may require an additional copy or additional copies of the manifest, but a reasonable time shall be allowed for the preparation of any copy which may be required in addition to the original and one copy.
