
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### General
##### § 4.98 Navigation fees.

(a)(1) The Customs Service shall publish a General Notice in theand Customs Bulletin periodically, setting forth a revised schedule of navigation fees for the following services:

(2) The fees shall be calculated in accordance with § 24.17(d) Customs Regulations (19 CFR 24.17(d)), and be based upon the amount of time the average service requires of a Customs officer in the fifth step of GS-9.

(3) The party requesting a vessel service described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for which reimbursable overtime compensation is payable under 19 U.S.C. 267 or 19 U.S.C. 1451 and § 24.16 of this chapter shall pay only the applicable overtime charge, and not both the overtime charge and the fee specified in the fee schedule.

(4) The revised fee schedule shall be made available to the public in Customs offices.

(5) The respective fees shall be designated in correspondence and reports by the applicable fee number.

(b) Fee 1 shall be collected at the first port of entry only. It shall not be collected from a vessel entering directly from a port in noncontiguous territory of the United States nor from one entering at a port on a northern, northeastern, or northwestern frontier otherwise than by sea.

(c) Fee 2 shall be collected at the final port of departure from the United States. It shall be collected from a yacht or public vessel which obtains a clearance, but shall not be collected from a vessel clearing directly for a port in noncontiguous territory of the United States nor from one clearing from a port on the northern, northeastern, or northwestern frontier otherwise than by sea. It shall be collected only upon the first clearance each year of a vessel making regular daily trips between a port of the United States and a port in Canada wholly upon interior waters not navigable to the ocean.

(d) Fee 3 shall be collected for granting a permit to a foreign vessel to proceed to another Customs port. It shall be collected from a foreign vessel clearing directly for a port in noncontiguous territory of the United States outside its Customs territory. This fee shall not be collected in the case of a foreign vessel proceeding on a voyage by sea from one port in the United States to another port via a foreign port. Only one fee shall be collected in case of simultaneous vessel transactions.

(e) Fee 4 shall be collected for receiving the manifest of a foreign vessel arriving from another Customs port. It shall be collected from a foreign vessel entering directly from a port in noncontiguous territory of the United States outside its Customs territory. This fee shall not be collected in the case of a foreign vessel which arrives at one port in the United States from another port on a voyage by sea via a foreign port. Only one fee shall be collected in the case of simultaneous vessel transactions.

(e-1) Fee 5 shall be collected from a foreign or American vessel at each port where the vessel is required to file a post entry in accordance with the provisions of § 4.12(a)(3). An original post entry may be supplemented by additional post entries in instances where items were omitted from the original post entry. A separate fee shall be collected for each supplemental post entry made to the original post entry.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Fee 7 shall be collected from foreign vessels only.

(h) Fee 8 shall be collected for each copy of any official document, whether certified or not, furnished to any person other than a Government officer.

(i) Private and commercial vessels, and passengers aboard commercial vessels, may be subject to the payment of fees for services provided in connection with their arrival as set forth in § 24.22 of this chapter.

(j) The loading or unloading of merchandise or passengers from a commercial vessel at a U.S. port may cause the harbor maintenance fee set forth in § 24.24 of this chapter to be assessed.
