
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Articles Exported and Returned
###### ยง 10.1 Domestic products; requirements on entry.
####### Aircraft and aircraft parts and equipment.

(g)(1) In the case of aircraft and aircraft parts and equipment returned to the United States under subheading 9801.00.10, HTSUS, by or for the account of an aircraft owner or operator and intended for use in his own aircraft operations, within or outside the United States, the entry summary may be made on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent. The entry summary on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, must be executed by the entrant and supported by the entry documentation required by ยง 142.3 of this chapter. If the CBP officer is satisfied that the articles are products of the United States, that they have not been improved in condition or advanced in value while abroad, and that no drawback has been or will be paid, the other documents described in this section will not be required, and no bond need be filed for their production.

(2) The entrant must show on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent:

(i) The name and address of the aircraft owner or operator by whom or for whose account the articles are returned to the United States, in the block headed "Articles Returned To (Name and Address)",

(ii) The name of the importing vessel or conveyance,

(iii) The date of its arrival,

(iv) A description of the articles,

(v) The value of the articles, and

(vi) That the articles are intended for use by the aircraft owner or operator in his own aircraft operations.

(3) If CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, is filed at time of entry, it will serve as both the entry and the entry summary.
