
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Articles Exported and Returned
###### § 10.1 Domestic products; requirements on entry.
####### Nonconsumable vessel stores and equipment.

(h)(1) In the case of nonconsumable vessel stores and equipment returned to the United States under subheading 9801.00.10, HTSUS, the entry summary may be made on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent. The entry summary on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, must be executed in duplicate by the entrant and supported by the entry documentation required by § 142.3 of this chapter. Before an entry summary on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, may be accepted for nonconsumable vessel stores and equipment, the CBP officer must be satisfied that:

(i) The articles are products of the United States.

(ii) The articles have not been improved in condition or advanced in value while abroad.

(iii) No drawback has been or will be paid, and

(iv) No duty equal to an internal revenue tax is payable under subheading 9801.00.80, HTSUS.

(2) The documentation described in paragraph (a) of this section will not be required in connection with an entry for nonconsumable vessel stores and equipment on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent.

(3) To satisfy the CBP officer that no drawback has been or will be paid on the articles in connection with their removal from the United States, the master of the vessel or other person having knowledge of the facts must furnish a written declaration which may be made on the reverse side of CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, showing that the articles were:

(i) Exported as stores or equipment on a United States vessel or a vessel operated by the United States Government,

(ii) Not landed in a foreign country, except for any needed repairs, adjustments, or refilling and return to the vessel from which landed or,

(iii) For transshipment as stores or equipment to another vessel.

(4) The entrant also must show:

(i) The name of the importing vessel,

(ii) The date of its arrival,

(iii) A description of the articles, and

(iv) The value of the articles.

(5) If CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, is filed at time of entry, it will serve as both the entry and the entry summary.

(i) When the total value of articles of claimed American origin contained in any shipment does not exceed $250 and such articles are found to be unquestionably products of the United States and do not appear to have been advanced in value or improved in condition while abroad and no quota is involved, free entry thereof may be made under subheading 9801.00.10 on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, executed by the owner, importer, consignee, or agent and filed in duplicate, without regard to the requirement of filing the documentation provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the CBP officer has reason to believe that Customs drawback or exemption from internal revenue tax, or both, were probably allowed on exportation of the articles or that they are otherwise subject to duty. The entrant must show on Customs Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, the name of the importing conveyance, the date of its arrival, the name of the country from which the articles were returned to the United States, and the value of the articles. The entrant must also produce evidence of his right to make entry (except as provided in § 141.11(b) of this chapter). If the Customs officer is not entirely certain that the articles to be entered under this paragraph by a nominal consignee are products of the United States, the actual owner or ultimate consignee thereof may be required to execute a Customs Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent.

(j) In the case of products of the United States, when the aggregate value of the shipment does not exceed $10,000 and the products are imported-

(1) For the purposes of repair or alteration, prior to reexportation, or

(2) After having been either rejected or returned by the foreign purchaser to the United States for credit, free entry thereof may be made under subheading 9801.00.10, HTSUS, on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, (a CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, must be submitted as well for such articles as provided in § 143.23(h) of this chapter), executed by the owner, importer, consignee, or agent and filed in duplicate, without regard to the requirement of filing the documentation provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the CBP officer has reason to believe that CBP drawback or exemption from internal revenue tax, or both, were probably allowed on exportation of the articles or that they are otherwise subject to duty. The person making entry must show on CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, the name of the importing conveyance, the date of its arrival, the name of the country from which the articles were returned to the United States, and the value of the articles. The person making entry must also produce evidence of his right to make entry (except as provided in § 141.11(b) of this chapter). If the CBP officer is not entirely certain that the articles to be entered under this paragraph by a nominal consignee are products of the United States, the actual owner or ultimate consignee thereof may be required to execute a CBP Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent.
