
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Wild Animals, Birds, and Insects
##### ยง 12.29 Plumage and eggs of wild birds.

(a) The provisions of Chapter 5, Additional U.S. Note 1, relating to the plumage of any bird, apply to all such plumage, whether imported separately or upon the bird itself, except (1) the feathers of birds specifically excepted by Additional U.S. Note 1 to Chapter 5, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), (2) plumage imported for scientific or educational purposes, (3) fully-manufactured artificial flies used for fishing, (4) plumage on game birds killed in foreign countries by residents of the United States and not imported for sale or other commercial purposes, and (5) plumage on live wild birds.

(b) The feathers or skins of certain birds may be imported for use in the manufacture of artificial flies used for fishing or for millinery purposes only under a permit issued by the Fish and Wildlife Service, United States Department of Interior, Washington DC 20240. No feathers or skins of the pro-species provided for by Additional U.S. Note 1, Chapter 5, HTSUS, shall be permitted to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption, unless the requisite permit is presented with the entry or withdrawal.

(c) The importation of the eggs of wild nongame birds is prohibited except as dead natural history specimens for museum or scientific collection purposes. The eggs of migratory birds may be imported for propagating purposes or for scientific and other limited purposes under permits issued by the Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. State game departments, municipal game farms or parks, and public museums, zoological parks or societies, and scientific or educational institutions may import the eggs of migratory birds without a permit (50 CFR 16.3). The eggs of certain game or migratory birds imported for hatching, such as ducks, geese, swans, turkeys, pigeons, doves, pheasant, grouse, partridges, quail, guinea fowl, and pea fowl, are subject to the regulations of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such regulations require that permits, except for eggs from Canada offered for entry at certain land border ports, must be obtained before the eggs are shipped from the country of origin and that all eggs shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by a national government veterinarian of the country of origin and inspected at a designated port of entry.

(d) Upon the attempted importation of eggs of wild birds, the importation of which is prohibited by Chapter 4, Additional U.S. Note 26, the eggs shall be seized and the importer accorded an opportunity to assent to forfeiture. In the event the importer refuses or fails to assent to the forfeiture of the prohibited eggs, the port director shall proceed to forfeit them under the provisions of the tariff act applicable to seizure and forfeiture of merchandise valued at less than $2,500.
