
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Unfair Competition
##### ยง 12.39 Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.
###### Determinations of the International Trade Commission.

(a)Under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1337), unfair methods of competition and unfair practices in the importation or sale of articles, the effect or tendency of which is to destroy, substantially injure, or prevent the establishment of an efficiently and economically operated United States industry, or to restrain or monopolize trade and commerce in the United States, are unlawful. After an investigation of an alleged violation of section 337, the U.S. International Trade Commission ("the Commission") may determine that section 337 has been violated. The Commission also may determine during the course of its investigation that there is reason to believe that a violation of section 337 exists. The Commission's determination in either case is effective on the date of its publication in theand is referred to the President, who may disapprove the determination for policy reasons on or before the close of a 60-day period beginning on the day after the day he receives a copy of the determination. A Commission determination disapproved by the President shall have no force or effect as of the date the Commission is notified of his disapproval. If the Commission's determination is not disapproved by the President during the 60-day period, or if he notifies the Commission before the close of the period that he approves the determination, the determination becomes final on the day after the close of the period or the day of the notification, whichever is earlier.
