
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Unfair Competition
##### ยง 12.39 Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.
###### Exclusion from entry; entry under bond; notice of exclusion order.

(b)(1) If the Commission finds a violation of section 337, or reason to believe that a violation exists, it may direct the Secretary of the Treasury to exclude from entry into the United States the articles concerned which are imported by the person violating or suspected of violating section 337. The Commission's exclusion order remains in effect until the Commission determines, and notifies the Secretary of the Treasury, that the conditions which led to the exclusion no longer exist, or until the determination of the Commission on which the order is based is disapproved by the President.

(2) During the period the Commission's exclusion order remains in effect, excluded articles may be entered under a single entry bond in an amount determined by the International Trade Commission to be sufficient to protect the complainant from any injury. On or after the date that the Commission's determination of a violation of section 337 becomes final, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, articles covered by the determination will be refused entry. If a violation of section 337 is found, the bond may be forfeited to the complainant under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commission. To enter merchandise that is the subject of a Commission exclusion order, importers must:

(i) File with CBP prior to entry a bond in the amount determined by the Commission that contains the conditions identified in the special importation and entry bond set forth in appendix B to part 113 of this chapter; and

(ii) Comply with the terms set forth in 19 CFR 210.50(d) in the event of a forfeiture of this bond.

(3) CBP shall notify each importer or consignee of articles released under bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section when the Commission's determination of a violation of section 337 becomes final and that entry of the articles is refused. The importer or consignee shall export or destroy the released articles under customs supervision within 30 days after the date of notification. The port director who released the articles shall assess liquidated damages in the full amount of the bond if the importer or consignee fails to export or destroy the released articles under Customs supervision within the 30-day period.

(4) In addition to the notice given to importers or consignees of articles released under bond, CBP shall provide written notice to all owners, importers or consignees of articles which are denied entry into the United States pursuant to an exclusion order that any future attempt to import such articles may result in the articles being seized and forfeited. Copies of all such notices are to be forwarded to the Executive Director, Commercial Targeting and Enforcement, Office of International Trade, at CBP Headquarters, and to the Office of The General Counsel, USITC, 500 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20436.
