
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Unfair Competition
##### ยง 12.39 Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.
###### Seizure and Forfeiture Orders.

(c)(1) In addition to issuing an exclusion order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Commission may issue an order providing that any article determined to be in violation of ยง 337 be seized and forfeited to the United States. Such order may be issued if:

(i) The owner, importer, or consignee of the article previously attempted to import the article or like articles into the United States;

(ii) The article or like articles were previously denied entry into the United States by reason of an exclusion order issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and

(iii) Upon such previous denial of entry, CBP had notified the owner, importer, or consignee of the article in writing of both the exclusion order and that seizure and forfeiture would result from any further attempt to import the article or like articles into the United States.

(2) Upon receipt of any seizure order issued by the Commission in accordance with this paragraph, Customs shall immediately notify all ports of entry of the property subject to the seizure order and identify the persons notified under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(3) The port director in the port in which the article was seized shall issue a notice of seizure to parties known to have an interest in the seized property. All interested parties to the property shall have an opportunity to petition for relief under the provisions of 19 CFR part 171. All petitions must be filed within 30 days of the date of issuance of the notice of seizure, and failure of a claimant to petition will result in the commencement of administrative forfeiture proceedings. All petitions will be decided by the appropriate Customs officer, based upon the value of the articles under seizure.

(4) If seized articles are found to be not includable in an order for seizure and forfeiture, then the seizure and the forfeiture shall be remitted in accordance with standard Customs procedures.

(5) Forfeited merchandise shall be disposed of in accordance with the Customs laws.
