
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Unfair Competition
##### ยง 12.39 Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.
###### Importations of semiconductor chip products.,et seq.

(e)(1) In accordance with the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (17 U.S.C. 901), if the owner of a mask work which is registered with the Copyright Office seeks to have CBP deny entry to any imported semiconductor chip products which infringe his rights in such mask work, the owner must obtain a court order enjoining, or an order of the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC), under section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C.1337), excluding, importation of such products. Exclusion orders issued by the USITC are enforceable by CBP under paragraph (b) of this section. Court orders or exclusion orders issued by the USITC shall be forwarded, for enforcement purposes, to the Director, Border Security and Trade Compliance Division, Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC 20229.

(2) CBP shall enforce any court order or USITC exclusion order based upon a mask work registration in accordance with the terms of such order. Court orders may require either denial of entry or the seizure of violative semiconductor chip products. Forfeiture proceedings in accordance with part 162 of this chapter shall be instituted against any such products so seized.

(3) This regulation will be effective against all importers regardless of whether they have knowledge that their importations are in violation of the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (17 U.S.C. 901 through 904).
