
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Articles Assembled Abroad With United States Components
###### ยง 10.11 General.

(a) Sections 10.12 through 10.23 set forth definitions and interpretative regulations adopted by the Commissioner of Customs pertaining to the construction of subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202) and related provisions of law. These provisions concern claims for the exemption from duty provided by subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), for American-made fabricated components which are returned to the United States as parts of articles assembled abroad. The examples included in these sections describe specific situations in which the exemption may or may not be applicable. The definitions and regulations that follow are promulgated to inform the public of the constructions and interpretations that the United States Customs Service shall give to relevant statutory terms and to assure the impartial and uniform assessment of duties upon merchandise claimed to be partially exempt from duty under subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), at the various ports of entry. Nothing in these regulations purports or is intended to restrict the legal right of importers or others to a judicial review of the matters contained therein.

(b) Section 10.24 sets forth the documentary requirements applicable to the entry of assembled articles claimed to be subject to the exemption provided under subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202). Allowance of an importer's claim is dependent upon meeting the statutory requirements for the exemption under subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202) and his complying with the documentary requirements set forth in ยง 10.24.
