
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Equipment Manufactured On or After January 1, 1968
##### ยง 12.80 Federal motor vehicle safety standards.
###### Release under bond.

(e)(1) If a declaration is filed under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the entry shall be accepted only if the importer or consignee gives a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter. An approval letter shall be issued upon approval by the Administrator, NHTSA, of the conformity statement submitted by the importer or consignee as provided for in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. The approval letter shall be forwarded by the Administrator, NHTSA, to the port director with a copy to the importer or consignee. Upon receipt of the approval letter the port director shall cancel the charge against the bond.

(2) If the approval letter is not received by the port director within 180 days after entry, the port director shall issue a Notice of Redelivery, Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, requiring the redelivery to Customs custody of the vehicle or equipment item. If the vehicle or equipment item is not redelivered to Customs custody or exported under Customs supervision within the period allowed by the port director in the Notice of Redelivery, liquidated damages shall be assessed in the full amount of a bond if it is single entry bond or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond.
