
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Safety Standards for Boats and Associated Equipment
##### ยง 12.85 Coast Guard boat and associated equipment safety standards.
###### Applicability of standards or regulations prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard.

(a)Boats and associated equipment (as hereinafter defined) are subject to U.S. Coast Guard safety regulations or standards when imported or, under certain conditions, brought into the United States after November 1, 1972. Those regulations or standards are prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, pursuant to sections 5, 7, and 39, Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1454, 1456, 1488), as set forth in 33 CFR parts 181, 183.

(1) The term "boats" includes:

(i) All vessels manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use.

(ii) All vessels leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's noncommercial use.

(iii) All vessels engaged in the carrying of six or fewer passengers (see section 4.80 of this chapter on prohibitions against foreign vessels transporting passengers in the coastwise trade).

(2) For purposes of ยง 12.85 the term "boat" does not include:

(i) Foreign vessels temporarily using waters subject to U.S. jurisdiction.

(ii) Military or public vessels of the United States, except recreational type public vessels.

(iii) A vessel whose owner is a State or subdivision thereof, which is principally used for governmental purposes, and which is clearly identifiable as such.

(iv) Ships' lifeboats.

(3) The term "associated equipment" means:

(i) Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally manufactured, or a similar part or component manufactured or sold for replacement, repair, or improvement of such system, part, or component (excluding radio equipment).

(ii) Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat (excluding radio equipment).

(iii) Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a person on board a boat (excluding radio equipment).

(4) The term "product" as used in this section, includes the terms "boats" and "associated equipment" as defined in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.
