
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 12 - SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE
#### Chemical Substances in Bulk and as Part of Mixtures and Articles
##### § 12.122 Detention of certain shipments.

(a) The director of the port of arrival will detain, at the importer's risk and expense, shipments of covered commodity:

(1) Which have been banned from the customs territory of the United States by a rule or order issued under section 5 or 6 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2604 or 2605) or

(2) Which have been ordered seized because of imminent hazards as specified under section 7 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2606).

(b) The director of the port of entry will detain shipments of covered commodity at the importer's risk and expense, in the following situations:

(1) Whenever the Administrator has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment is not in compliance with TSCA and notifies the port director to detain the shipment.

(2) Whenever the port director has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment is not in compliance with TSCA; or

(3) Whenever the importer fails to certify compliance with TSCA as required by § 12.121.

(c) Upon detention of a shipment, the port director will give prompt notice to the Administrator and the importer. The notice will include the reasons for detention.

(d) A detained shipment will not be held in the custody of the port director for more than 48 hours after the date of detention. Thereafter, the shipment will be promptly turned over to the Administrator for storage or disposition as provided for in §§ 12.127 and 127.28(i), unless previously released to the importer under bond as provided in § 12.123(b). Notice of intent to abandon the shipment by the importer will constitute a waiver of all time periods specified in parts 12 and 127.
