
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 18 - TRANSPORTATION IN BOND AND MERCHANDISE IN TRANSIT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 18.1 In-bond application and entry; general rules.
###### In-transit time,Maximum in-transit time.

(i)-(1)Except for merchandise to be transported via barge, merchandise to be transported in-bond must be delivered to CBP at the port of destination or port of exportation within 30 days from the date of conveyance arrival at the origination port (if the in-bond application has been received and approved prior to conveyance arrival), or the date CBP provides movement authorization to the in-bond applicant, whichever is later. Merchandise to be transported via barge for all or part of the in-bond movement, must be delivered to CBP at the port of destination or port of exportation within 60 days from the date of conveyance arrival at the origination port (if the in-bond application has been received and approved prior to conveyance arrival), or the date CBP provides movement authorization to the in-bond applicant, whichever is later. If the merchandise is subject to examination or inspection by CBP or another government agency, the time that the merchandise is held due to the examination or inspection will not be considered part of the 30-day or 60-day in-transit time. Neither the diversion to another port nor the filing of a new in-bond application extends the maximum in-transit time. Failure to deliver the merchandise within the prescribed period constitutes an irregular delivery. In-bond merchandise transported by pipeline is not subject to the time limits in this section.
