
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 18 - TRANSPORTATION IN BOND AND MERCHANDISE IN TRANSIT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 18.6 Short shipments; shortages; entry and allowance.
###### Demand for redelivery; entry.

(c)When a shipment or a portion of a shipment is not delivered, or when delivery is to an unauthorized location or is delivered to the consignee without the permission of CBP, CBP may demand return (redelivery) of the merchandise to CBP custody. The demand must be made no later than 30 days after the shortage, delivery, or failure to deliver is discovered by CBP. The demand for the redelivery of the merchandise to CBP custody must be made to the bonded carrier, cartman, or lighterman identified in the in-bond application. The demand for the redelivery of the merchandise will be made on CBP Form 4647, Notice of Redelivery, other appropriate form or letter, or by an electronic equivalent thereof. A copy of the demand or electronic equivalent thereof, with the date of mailing or delivery noted thereon, must be retained by the port director and made part of the in-bond entry record. Entry of the merchandise may be accepted if the merchandise can be recovered intact without any of the packages having been opened. In such cases, any shortage from the invoice quantity will be presumed to have occurred while the merchandise was in the possession of the bonded carrier.
