
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 18 - TRANSPORTATION IN BOND AND MERCHANDISE IN TRANSIT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 18.8 Liability for not meeting in-bond requirements; liquidated damages; payment of taxes, duties, fees, and charges.
###### Carnets,TIR carnets.

(d)-(1)(i) The domestic guaranteeing association will be jointly and severally liable with the initial bonded carrier for duties, taxes, and fees accruing to the U.S., and any other charges imposed, in lieu thereof, as the result of any shortage, irregular delivery, or nondelivery at the port of destination or port of exportation of merchandise covered by a TIR carnet. The liability of the domestic guaranteeing association is limited to $50,000 per TIR carnet for duties, taxes, and sums collected in lieu thereof. Penalties imposed as liquidated damages against the initial bonded carrier, and sums assessed against the guaranteeing association in lieu of duties and taxes for any shortage, irregular delivery, or nondelivery will be in accordance with this section. If a TIR carnet has not been discharged or has been discharged subject to a reservation, the guaranteeing association will be notified within one year of the date upon which the carnet is taken on charge, including time for receipt of the notification, except that if the discharge was obtained improperly or fraudulently the period will be two years. However, in cases that become the subject of legal proceedings during the above-mentioned period, no claim for payment will be made more than one year after the date when the decision of the court becomes enforceable.

(ii) Within three months from the date demand for payment is made by the port director as provided by ยง 18.6(e), the guaranteeing association must pay the amount claimed, except that if the amount claimed exceeds the liability of the guaranteeing association under the carnet (see ยง 114.22(d) of this chapter), the carrier must pay the excess. The amount paid will be refunded if, within a period of one year from the date on which the claim for payment was made, it is established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of CBP that no irregularity occurred. CBP may cancel liquidated damages assessed against the guaranteeing association to the extent authorized by paragraph (b) of this section.
