
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 18 - TRANSPORTATION IN BOND AND MERCHANDISE IN TRANSIT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 18.8 Liability for not meeting in-bond requirements; liquidated damages; payment of taxes, duties, fees, and charges.
###### A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnets.

(2)The domestic guaranteeing association is jointly and severally liable with the initial bonded carrier for pecuniary penalties, liquidated damages, duties, fees, and taxes accruing to the United States and any other charges imposed as the result of any shortage, irregular delivery, failure to comply with sealing requirements in this part, and any non-delivery at the port of destination or port of exportation of merchandise covered by an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet. However, the liability of the guaranteeing association must not exceed the amount of the import duties by more than 10 percent. If an A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet is unconditionally discharged with respect to certain goods, the guaranteeing association will no longer be liable on the carnet with respect to those goods unless it is subsequently discovered that the discharge of the carnet was obtained fraudulently or improperly or that there has been a breach of the conditions of temporary admission or of transit. No claim for payment will be made more than one year following the date of expiration of the validity of the carnet. The guaranteeing association will be allowed a period of six months from the date of any claim by the port director in which to furnish proof of the reexportation of the goods or of any other proper discharge of the A.T.A. or TECRO/AIT carnet. If such proof is not furnished within the time specified, the guaranteeing association must either deposit or provisionally pay the sums. The deposit or payment will become final three months after the date of the deposit or payment, during which time the guaranteeing association may still furnish proof of the reexportation of the goods to recover the sums deposited or paid.
