
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Temporary Importations Under Bond
###### § 10.31 Entry; bond.

(a)(1) Entry of articles brought into the United States temporarily and claimed to be exempt from duty under Chapter 98, Subchapter XIII, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), unless covered by an A.T.A. carnet or a TECRO/AIT carnet as provided in part 114 of this chapter, shall be made on Customs Form 3461 or 7533, supported by the documentation required by § 142.3 of this chapter. However, when § 10.36 or § 10.36a is applicable, or the aggregate value of the article is not over $250, the form prescribed for the informal entry of importations by mail, in baggage, or by other means, may be used. When entry is made on Customs Form 3461 or 7533, an entry summary, Customs Form 7501, shall be filed within 10 days after time of entry, in accordance with subpart B, part 142 of this chapter.

(2) If Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, is filed at time of entry, it shall serve as both the entry and entry summary, and Customs Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, or 7533 shall not be required. Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, shall be in original only, except for entries under subheading 9813.00.05, HTSUS, which require a duplicate copy for statistical purposes. When articles are entered under an A.T.A. carnet or a TECRO/AIT carnet, the importation voucher of the carnet shall serve as the entry.

(3) In addition to the data usually shown on a regular consumption entry summary, each temporary importation bond entry summary shall include:

(i) The HTSUS subheading number under which entry is claimed.

(ii) A statement of the use to be made of the articles in sufficient detail to enable the Center director to determine whether they are entitled to entry as claimed, and

(iii) A declaration that the articles are not to be put to any other use and that they are not imported for sale or sale on approval.

(b) The port director, if he is satisfied as to the importer's identity and good faith, may admit a vehicle or craft brought in by a nonresident to take part in a race or other specific contest for which no money purse is awarded, under the provisions of subheading 9813.00.35, HTSUS, without formal entry or security for exportation. If at the time of arrival it appears that the article is likely to remain in the United States beyond 90 days, formal entry and bond shall be taken.

(c) When any article has been admitted without formal entry or security for exportation and the importer thereafter desires to prolong his stay beyond 90 days, an entry covering the article and security for its exportation shall be accepted at any port where the article may be presented for entry. The time during which the imported article may remain in the United States under the entry shall be computed from the date of its original arrival in the United States. The estimated duties for the purpose of fixing the amount of any bond required by paragraph (f) of this section shall be the estimated duties which would have been required to be deposited had the article been entered under an ordinary consumption entry on the date of the original arrival.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) The entry or invoice shall: (1) Describe each article in detail; (2) set forth the value of each article; and (3) set forth any marks or numbers thereon or other distinguishing features thereof. In the case of a vehicle, aircraft, or pleasure boat entered under subheading 9813.00.05, HTSUS and § 10.36a, the registration number, and engine or motor number, and the body number (if available) shall also be shown on the entry. Examination of the imported articles shall be made whenever the circumstances warrant, and occasionally in any event to an extent which will enable the Customs officer to determine that the importation is in agreement with the invoice or entry as to identity and quantity and for the purpose of accepting the entry under the applicable provisions of Chapter 98, Subchapter XIII, HTSUS. No examination for the purpose of appraisement and no appraisement of the articles shall be made.

(f) With the exceptions stated herein, a bond shall be given on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in an amount equal to double the duties, including fees, which it is estimated would accrue (or such larger amount as the Center director shall state in writing or by the electronic equivalent to the entrant is necessary to protect the revenue) had all the articles covered by the entry been entered under an ordinary consumption entry. In the case of samples solely for use in taking orders entered under subheading 9813.00.20, HTSUS, motion-picture advertising films entered under subheading 9813.00.25, HTSUS, and professional equipment, tools of trade and repair components for such equipment or tools entered under subheading 9813.00.50, HTSUS, the bond required to be given shall be in an amount equal to 110 percent of the estimated duties, including fees, determined at the time of entry. If appropriate a carnet, under the provisions of part 114 of this chapter, may be filed in lieu of a bond on CBP Form 301 (containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter). Cash deposits in the amount of the bond may be accepted in lieu of sureties. When the articles are entered under subheading 9813.00.05, 9813.00.20, or 9813.00.50, HTSUS without formal entry, as provided for in §§ 10.36 and 10.36a, or the amount of the bond taken under any subheading of Chapter 98, Subchapter XIII, HTSUS, is less than $25, the bond shall be without surety or cash deposit, and the bond shall be modified to so indicate. In addition, notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, in the case of professional equipment necessary for carrying out the business activity, trade or profession of a business person, equipment for the press or for sound or television broadcasting, cinematographic equipment, articles imported for sports purposes and articles intended for display or demonstration, if brought into the United States by a resident of Canada, Mexico, Singapore, Chile, Morocco, Australia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Bahrain, Oman, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Colombia, or Panama and entered under Chapter 98, Subchapter XIII, HTSUS, no bond or other security will be required if the entered article is a good originating, within the meaning of General Notes 12, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, and 35, HTSUS, in the country of which the importer is a resident.

(g) Claim for free entry under Chapter 98, Subchapter XIII, HTSUS may be made for articles of any character described therein which have been previously entered under any other provision of law and the entry amended accordingly upon compliance with the requirements of this section, provided the articles have not been released from CBP custody, or even though released from CBP custody if it is established that the original entry was made on the basis of a clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence within the meaning of section 514(a), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and was brought to the attention of CBP within the time limits of that section. If an entry is so amended, the period of time during which the merchandise may remain in the customs territory of the United States under bond shall be computed from the date of importation. In the case of articles covered by an informal mail entry, such a claim may be made within a reasonable time either before or after the articles have been released from CBP custody.

(h) After the entry and bond have been accepted, the articles may be released to the importer. The entry shall not be liquidated as the transaction does not involve liquidated duties. However, a TIB importer may be required to file an entry for consumption and pay duties, or pay liquidated damages under its bond for a failure to do so, in the case of merchandise imported under subheading 9813.00.05, HTSUS, and subsequently exported to Canada or Mexico (see § 181.53 of this chapter).
