
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.3 Bonded warehouses; alterations; relocation; suspensions; discontinuance.
###### Procedure for revocation or suspension for cause.

(f)The port director may at any time serve notice in writing upon any proprietor of a bonded warehouse to show cause why his right to continue the bonded status of his warehouse should not be revoked or suspended for cause. Such notice shall advise the proprietor of the grounds for the proposed action and shall afford the proprietor an opportunity to respond in writing within 30 days. Thereafter, the port director shall consider the allegations and responses made by the proprietor unless the proprietor in his response requests a hearing. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the Commissioner of Customs or his designee within 30 days following the proprietor's request. The proprietor may be represented by counsel at such hearing, and all evidence and testimony of witnesses in such proceedings, including substantiation of the allegations and the responses thereto shall be presented, with the right of cross-examination to both parties. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the proprietor of the warehouse. At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall promptly transmit all papers and the stenographic record of the hearing to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee together with his recommendation for final action. The proprietor may submit in writing additional views or arguments to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee following a hearing on the basis of the stenographic record, within 10 days after delivery to him of a copy of such record. The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations or designee shall thereafter render his decision in writing, stating his reasons therefor. Such decision shall be served on the proprietor of the warehouse, and shall be considered the final administrative action.
