
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.4 CBP and proprietor responsibility and supervision over warehouses.
###### FIFO.

(ii)A proprietor may account for fungible merchandise on a First-In-First-Out (FIFO) basis instead of specific identification by warehouse entry number, provided the merchandise meets the criteria for fungibility and the recordkeeping requirements contained in ยง 19.12 of this part are met. As of the beginning date of FIFO procedures, each kind of fungible merchandise in the warehouse under FIFO shall constitute a separate inventory category. Each inventory category shall be assigned a unique number or other identifier by the proprietor to distinguish it from all other inventory categories under FIFO. All of the merchandise in a given inventory category shall be physically placed so as to be segregated from merchandise under other inventory categories or merchandise accounted for under other inventory methods. The unique identifier shall be marked on the merchandise, its container, or the location where it is stored so as to clearly show the inventory category of each article under FIFO procedures. Merchandise covered by a given unique identifier may be stored in multiple locations within the warehouse if the proprietor's inventory control system specifically identifies all locations where merchandise for a specific unique identifier is stored and the quantity in each location. The proprietor must provide, upon request by a Customs officer, a record balance of goods, specifying the quantity in each storage location, covered by any warehouse entry, general order, seizure, or unique identifier so a physical count can be made to verify the accuracy of the record balance.
