
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.6 Deposits, withdrawals, blanket permits to withdraw and sealing requirements.
###### Withdrawal and removal from warehouse.

(b)(1)The port director may authorize the withdrawal and removal of merchandise, without physical supervision or examination by a CBP officer under permit issued under the procedure set forth in ยง 144.39 of this chapter. When a withdrawal or removal is not physically supervised by a CBP officer, the warehouse proprietor will be relieved of responsibility only for the merchandise in its warehouse in the condition and quantity as shown on the application for withdrawal or removal. In the case of merchandise to be carted or transported in bond from the warehouse, the proprietor will be relieved of responsibility only if it receives the signed receipt on the withdrawal or removal document of the carrier named in the document. The proprietor's responsibility may be adjusted by any discrepancy report made jointly by the warehouse proprietor, and the licensed cartman or lighterman, bonded carrier, weigher, gauger, or measurer and signed by the authorized representative of the above within 15 calendar days after removal from the warehouse. The adjustments must be noted on the permit copy of the withdrawal or removal document. A copy of any joint report of discrepancy must be promptly provided to the port director.
