
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### § 19.6 Deposits, withdrawals, blanket permits to withdraw and sealing requirements.
###### Blanket permits to withdraw,General.

(d)-(1)(i) Blanket permits may be used to withdraw merchandise from bonded warehouses for:

(A) Delivery to individuals departing directly from the customs territory for exportation under the sales ticket procedure of § 144.37(h) of this chapter (Class 9 warehouses only);

(B) Aircraft or vessel supplies under § 309 or 317, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309, 1317); or

(C) The personal or official use of personnel of foreign governments and international organizations set forth in subpart I, part 148 of this chapter; or

(D) A combination of the foregoing.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, blanket permits to withdraw may be used only for delivery at the port where withdrawn and not for transportation in bond to another port. Blanket permits to withdraw may not be used for delivery to a location for retention or splitting of shipments under the provisions of § 18.24 of this chapter. A withdrawer who desires a blanket permit must state on the warehouse entry, or on the warehouse entry/entry summary when used as an entry, that "Some or all of the merchandise will be withdrawn under blanket permit per § 19.6(d), CBP Regulations." CBP's acceptance of the entry will constitute approval of the blanket permit. A copy of the entry will be delivered to the proprietor, whereupon merchandise may be withdrawn under the terms of the blanket permit. The permit may be revoked by the port director in favor of individual applications and permits if the permit is found to be used for other purposes, or if necessary to protect the revenue or properly enforce any law or regulation CBP is charged with administering. Merchandise covered by an entry for which a blanket permit was issued may be withdrawn for purposes other than those specified in this paragraph if a withdrawal is properly filed as required in subpart D, part 144, of this chapter.

(iii) Blanket permits to withdraw may be used for a withdrawal for transportation to another port by a duty-free sales enterprise which meets the requirements for exemption as stated in § 144.34(c) of this chapter. In addition, blanket permits to withdraw may be used for a withdrawal from a Class 9 warehouse for transportation in bond to another port of duty-free merchandise intended for passengers' on-board purchases when expressly authorized in writing by the appropriate Director, Field Operations, provided that both the Class 9 warehouse and port of destination are under that Director's authority and the vessel is destined for a foreign destination.
