
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.6 Deposits, withdrawals, blanket permits to withdraw and sealing requirements.
###### Withdrawals under blanket permit.

(2)Withdrawals may be made under blanket permit without any further CBP approval, and must be documented by placing a copy of the withdrawal document in the proprietor's permit file folder. Each withdrawal must be filed on CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, and must be consecutively numbered, prefixed with the letter"B". The withdrawal must specify the quantity and value of each type of merchandise to be withdrawn. Each copy must bear the summary statement described in ยง 144.32(a) of this chapter, reflecting the balance of merchandise covered by the warehouse entry. Any joint discrepancy report of the proprietor and the bonded carrier, licensed cartman or lighterman, or weigher, gauger, or measurer for a supplementary withdrawal must be made on the copy and reported to the port director as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A copy of the withdrawal must be retained in the records of the proprietor as provided in ยง 19.12(d)(4) of this part. Merchandise must not be removed from the warehouse prior to the preparation of the supplementary withdrawal. If merchandise is so removed, the proprietor will be subject to liquidated damages as if it were removed without a CBP permit.
