
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.6 Deposits, withdrawals, blanket permits to withdraw and sealing requirements.
###### Blanket permit summary.

(5)When all of the merchandise covered by an entry on which a blanket permit to withdraw was issued has been withdrawn, including withdrawals made for purposes other than duty-free store delivery, vessel or aircraft supply, or diplomatic use, the proprietor must prepare a report on a copy of CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, or a form on the letterhead of the proprietor, which provides an account of the disposition of the merchandise covered by the blanket permit. The form must bear the words "BLANKET PERMIT SUMMARY" in capital letters conspicuously printed or stamped in the top margin. On the form, the proprietor must certify that the merchandise listed thereunder was withdrawn in compliance with ยง 19.6(d), and must account for all of the merchandise withdrawn under blanket permit by HTSUS (Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States) number, HTSUS quantity (where applicable) and value. If applicable, the account must separately list and identify merchandise withdrawn for

(i) Duty-free store exportation,

(ii) Vessel or aircraft supply use, and

(iii) Personal or official use of persons and organizations set forth in subpart I, part 148, of this chapter. If all of the merchandise was withdrawn under the sales ticket procedure of ยง 144.37(h) of this chapter, the sales ticket register may be substituted for the blanket permit summary. The form will be placed in the permit file folder and treated as provided in ยง 19.12(a) of this part.
