
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 19.9 General order, abandoned, and seized merchandise.
###### Release of merchandise.

(c)Merchandise in general order may be released by the warehouse proprietor, after Customs inspection or examination as ordered by the port director, to the person named in a release order under ยง 141.11 of this chapter. The release may only be made by the proprietor upon presentation of a permit to release or delivery authorization signed by the appropriate Customs officer on Customs Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, 7501, or its electronic equivalent, 368 or 368A or other Customs form as designated by the port director. General order goods which have been unclaimed under ยง 127.11 of this chapter, voluntarily abandoned, or seized and forfeited may be released for transfer to the place of sale upon presentation to the warehouse proprietor of an approved copy of Customs Form 5251 (Order to Transfer Merchandise for Public Auction (Sale)), and an approved copy of Customs Form 6043 (Delivery Ticket). The quantity and condition of the goods so transferred shall be determined jointly by the proprietor and the cartman or lighterman picking up the goods for delivery to the place of sale. Any discrepancies shall be noted on the delivery ticket, a copy of which shall be sent to the port director within two business days of agreement. Seized goods that are released for a purpose other than sale may be released from warehouse only upon such written terms and conditions as directed by the port director.
