
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Temporary Importations Under Bond
###### § 10.36a Vehicles, pleasure boats and aircraft brought in for repair or alteration.

(a) A vehicle (such as an automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle, tractor, trailer), pleasure boat, or aircraft brought into the United States by an operator of such vehicle, pleasure boat, or aircraft for repair or alteration (as defined in §§ 10.8, 10.490, 10.570, and 181.64 of this chapter) may be entered on the operator's baggage declaration, in lieu of formal entry and examination, and may be passed under subheading 9813.00.05, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), at the place of arrival in the same manner as passengers' baggage. When the vehicle, aircraft, or pleasure boat to be entered is being towed by or transported on another vehicle, the operator of the towing or transporting vehicle may make entry for the vehicle, aircraft or pleasure boat to be repaired or altered. The bond, prescribed by § 10.31(f), filed to support entry under this section shall be without surety or cash deposit except as provided by this paragraph and paragraph (d) of this section. The examination may be made by an inspector who is qualified to determine the amount of such bond to be filed in support of the entry. The privilege accorded by this paragraph shall not apply when two or more vehicles, pleasure boats, or aircraft are to be entered by the same importer under subheading 9813.00.05, HTSUS, at the same time. In that event, the importer must file a formal entry supported by bond with surety or cash deposit in lieu of surety.

(b) Each vehicle, pleasure boat, or aircraft to which paragraph (a) of this section is applicable shall be identified on the operator's baggage declaration, which must include the data prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (e) of § 10.31.

(c) Exportation shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of § 10.38.

(d) The privilege of clearance of a vehicle, pleasure boat, or aircraft brought in by the operator of such vehicle, pleasure boat, or aircraft, for repair or alteration on his baggage declaration under bond without surety or cash deposit shall not be granted to an individual who has failed to comply with the provisions of such a bond in connection with any prior arrival. Such individual shall be required to file a formal entry under subheading 9813.00.05, HTSUS, with a bond supported by a surety or cash deposit in lieu of surety.
