
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Accounts
##### ยง 19.12 Inventory control and recordkeeping system.
###### Systems capability.

(a)The proprietor of a class 11 general order warehouse as described in ยง 19.1 must have an automated inventory control and recordkeeping system. Proprietors of existing class 3, 4, or 5 warehouses as described in ยง 19.1 certified before December 9, 2002, to receive general order merchandise must have automated inventory control and recordkeeping systems in place with respect to general order merchandise after a period of 2 years from December 9, 2002. All other warehouse proprietors have a choice of maintaining manual or automated inventory control and recordkeeping systems or a combination of manual and automated systems. All inventory control and recordkeeping systems must be capable of:

(1) Accounting for all merchandise transported, deposited, stored, manipulated, manufactured, smelted, refined, destroyed in or removed from the bonded warehouse and all merchandise collected by a proprietor or his agent for transport to his warehouse. The records must provide an audit trail from deposit through manipulation, manufacture, destruction, and withdrawal from the bonded warehouse either by specific identification or other CBP authorized inventory method. The records to be maintained are those which a prudent businessman in the same type of business can be expected to maintain. The records are to be kept in sufficient detail to permit effective and efficient determination by CBP of the proprietor's compliance with these regulations and correctness of his annual submission or reconciliation;

(2) Producing accurate and timely reports and documents as required by this part; and

(3) Identifying shortages and overages of merchandise in sufficient detail to determine the quantity, description, tariff classification and value of the missing or excess merchandise so that appropriate reports can be filed with CBP on a timely basis.
