
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Accounts
##### § 19.12 Inventory control and recordkeeping system.
###### Class 9 warehouses.

(ii)With respect to Class 9 warehouses, any theft or suspected theft or overage or any extraordinary shortage or damage (equal to one percent or more of the merchandise in an entry or covered by a unique identifier; or if the missing merchandise is subject to duties and taxes in excess of $100) must be immediately brought to the attention of the port director, and confirmed in writing within 20 calendar days after the shortage, overage, or damage has been brought to the attention of the port director. An entry for warehouse must be filed for all overages by the person with the right to make entry within 20 calendar days of the date of discovery. The responsible party must pay the applicable duties, taxes and interest on thefts and shortages reported to CBP within 20 calendar days following the end of the calendar month in which the shortage is discovered. The port director may allow the consolidation of duties and taxes applicable to multiple shortages into one payment; however, the amount applicable to each warehouse entry is to be listed on the submission and must specify the applicable duty, tax and interest. These same requirements apply when cumulative thefts, shortages or overages under a specific entry or unique identifier total one percent or more of the value of the merchandise or if the duties and taxes owed exceed $100. Upon identification, the proprietor must record all shortages and overages in its inventory control and recordkeeping system, whether or not they are required to be reported to the port director at the time. The proprietor must also record all shortages and overages as required in the CBP Form 300 or annual reconciliation report under paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section, as appropriate. Duties and taxes applicable to any non-extraordinary shortage or damage and not required to be paid earlier must be reported and submitted to the port director no later than the date the certification of preparation of CBP Form 300 is due or at the time the certification of preparation of the annual reconciliation report is due, as prescribed in paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section. Discrepancies found in a Class 9 warehouse with integrated locations as set forth in § 19.35(c) will be the net discrepancies for a unique identifier (see § 19.4(b)(8)(ii) of this part) such that overages within one sales location will be offset against shortages in another location that is within the integrated location. A Class 9 proprietor who transfers merchandise between facilities in different ports without being required to file a rewarehouse entry in accordance with § 144.34 of this chapter may offset overages and shortages within the same unique identifier for merchandise located in stores in different ports (see § 19.4(b)(8)(ii) of this part).
