
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Manufacturing Warehouses
##### ยง 19.13 Requirements for establishment of warehouse.

(a) Buildings or parts of buildings and other enclosures may be designated as bonded manufacturing warehouses if the port director is satisfied that their location, construction, and arrangement afford adequate protection to the revenue. Such warehouses shall be used solely and exclusively for the purpose for which they are bonded. The general provisions pertaining to warehouses for the storage of bonded merchandise shall, so far as relevant, apply to bonded manufacturing warehouses.

(b) Application for the establishment of such a warehouse shall be made to the director of the port where the premises are situated, setting forth the size, construction, and location of the premises, the manufacture proposed to be carried on, and the kinds of materials intended to be stored and used therein.

(c) The procedure outlined in ยง 19.2 with respect to the application to bond the premises and the execution of the bond shall be followed.

(d) A list of all articles intended to be manufactured in the warehouse shall be filed with the port director. Such list shall set forth the specific names under which the articles are to be exported and under which they will be known to the trade, and shall show the names of all the ingredients entering into the manufacture of such articles, with the quantities of such ingredients or materials as may be dutiable or taxable.

(e) Proprietors of such warehouses are required to conform strictly to the formulas filed with the bond, or subsequently, and in no instance shall an article be permitted to be manufactured in or withdrawn from the warehouse which does not contain all the ingredients and in the quantities specified in the formula for the manufacture of such article, or which contains any ingredient not specified in the formula.

(f) Manufactured articles shall be marked with the trade name of the goods and may be marked, in addition, with the formulas and with such insignia or name as may be indicated or desired by the purchaser, if such additional marking will in no manner conflict with the requirements of the formula or present or create a false or misleading statement or impression.
