
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Manufacturing Warehouses
##### ยง 19.13 Requirements for establishment of warehouse.
###### Secure storage.

(g)Each bonded manufacturing warehouse shall have a secured area separated from the remainder of the premises to be used exclusively for the storage of imported merchandise, domestic spirits, and merchandise subject to internal-revenue tax transferred into the warehouse for manufacture. A like area shall be provided to be used exclusively for the storage of products manufactured in the warehouse. The area shall be secured to prevent any unauthorized person from having access thereto and the goods therein shall be arranged in a manner to assist a Customs officer in making the required examination or taking samples for analysis. The areas for storage of bonded material and manufactured products shall be secured in accordance with the standards prescribed in ยง 19.4(b)(6) of this part. The proprietor shall mark each package with the correct warehouse entry number and date until manufacturing takes place. After manufacture, the proprietor shall mark each package of the finished product with the warehouse entry number and date.

(h) Entry shall be made and duties paid, where applicable, on any imported machinery or other equipment or apparatus that is for the construction of the warehouse or for the pursuit of its business.
