
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Manufacturing Warehouses
##### § 19.15 Withdrawal for exportation of articles manufactured in bond; waste or byproducts for consumption.

(a) Except cigars manufactured in bond and supplies for vessels, no articles or materials received into a bonded manufacturing warehouse or articles manufactured therefrom shall be withdrawn or removed therefrom except for direct exportation or transportation and exportation in bond to a foreign country. The exportation or shipment shall in every case be under the supervision of Customs.

(b) The coverings or containers of imported articles or materials, whether or not subject to duty apart from their contents, are not "articles or materials" within the meaning of section 311, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and need not be exported, but may be withdrawn from the warehouse for consumption under Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, upon payment of the duties applicable to such coverings or containers in their condition as withdrawn.

(c) Labels, coverings, and empty containers imported to be used in putting up the manufactured articles, if subject to duty or tax, constitute "articles or materials" within the meaning of section 311, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, but may be withdrawn for consumption upon payment of all applicable duties and taxes.

(d) When waste or a byproduct is withdrawn for consumption, Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, shall be used, modified as necessary and describing in detail the waste or byproduct and the imported material from which it was produced. Such waste or byproduct shall be appraised at its wholesale value at the time of withdrawal in the principal markets of the country from which the material was imported, determined in accordance with the provisions of section 402, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. Upon payment of the duty, the withdrawal permit shall be issued for delivery and a proper credit given upon the manufacturer's bond.

(e) Each withdrawal covering the items which are permitted to be withdrawn for consumption shall contain a summary statement thereon, showing for each class of merchandise the quantity on hand in the account, the quantity covered by the withdrawal presented, and the quantity remaining in the warehouse account, if any.

(f) The general procedure covering warehouse withdrawals for exportation must be followed in the case of articles withdrawn for exportation from a bonded manufacturing warehouse.

(g)(1) Articles may be withdrawn for transportation and delivery to a bonded storage warehouse at an exterior port under the provisions of section 311, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1311), for the sole purpose of immediate exportation, except for distilled spirits which may be withdrawn under the provisions of § 311 for transportation and delivery to any bonded storage warehouse for the sole purpose of immediate exportation or may be withdrawn pursuant to section 309(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309(a)). To make a withdrawal an in-bond application must be filed (see part 18 of this chapter), as provided for in § 144.36 of this chapter. A rewarehouse entry shall be made in accordance with § 144.34(b) of this chapter, supported by a bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.63 of this chapter.

(2) Domestic distilled spirits transferred from a Customs bonded manufacturing warehouse, class 6, to a Customs bonded storage warehouse, class 2 or 3, in accordance with section 311, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1311), shall be rewarehoused in accordance with the procedure for withdrawal and rewarehousing set forth in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. For other regulations concerning the entry and withdrawal of distilled spirits, see § 144.15 of this chapter.

(h) No merchandise manufactured in a bonded manufacturing warehouse may be withdrawn by a person other than the manufacturer either from the manufacturing warehouse or from a warehouse where the merchandise is stored awaiting direct exportation, unless an authorization of the manufacturer is endorsed on the face of the withdrawal, or the manufacturer previously and in writing has transferred the right of withdrawal.

(i) When spirits and wines are withdrawn for shipment to Puerto Rico under section 311, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the procedure outlined in § 7.1 of this chapter shall be followed.

(j) As proof of manufacture and exportation, the manufacturer, within 6 months from the date of demand by the port director, shall file in the case of each transaction or period of manufacture a statement certified by the warehouse proprietor showing the date and number of the bond, the quantity and identity of the dutiable or taxable merchandise used, and the quantity and description of the articles into which it has been manufactured, together with the quantities of any byproducts and waste produced. In the case of articles manufactured with the use of distilled spirits, the statement shall also be verified by the foreman or chemist of the factory and shall show the number of packages of spirits used, the marks and numbers, the number of wine, proof and taxable gallons, and the degree of proof.

(k) The same proofs of exportation shall be required as in the case of other warehouse withdrawals for exportation.

(l) When the fact of exportation of all the products has been established by such proofs and any byproducts and waste have been exported or released for consumption, the bond given by the manufacturer, or the charges against his bond, shall be canceled.

(m) Shortage, irregular delivery, and nondelivery occurring with respect to merchandise withdrawn from bonded manufacturing warehouse while it is under transportation in bond shall be charged against the bonded carrier.
