
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Smelting and Refining Warehouses
##### ยง 19.19 Manufacturers' records; annual statement.

(a) Every manufacturer engaged in smelting or refining, or both, shall immediately notify the director of the port nearest which the plant is located of any material change in the character of the metal-bearing materials smelted or refined and of any change in the methods of smelting or refining. Each plant for which any of the deductions provided for in Chapter 26, Additional U.S. Note 1, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, is to be claimed shall maintain complete smelting and refining records showing the receipts and disposition of each shipment of materials received in the plant. If losses are to be claimed under paragraph (c) of said headnote, a record shall be kept which will become a part of the annual statement described in paragraph (b) of this section. These records shall be retained for a period of not less than 5 years. In the case of records forming the basis of such an annual statement, the period for retention shall run from the date of the related annual statement. All such records shall be made available to the port director for such inspection and verification as he may deem advisable.

(b) Every manufacturer engaged in smelting or refining, or both, must prepare and submit to the port director at the port nearest which the plant is located an annual statement for the fiscal year for the plant involved not later than 60 days after the termination of that fiscal year. The annual statement for the smelting or refining warehouse or both, shall be in lieu of the warehouse proprietors submission required by ยง 19.12. No specific form is prescribed in which such statement shall be prepared. As basic information, the statement shall show the quantities of metal-bearing materials on hand at the beginning of the period and the dutiable contents thereof; the quantities of metal-bearing materials received during the period and the dutiable contents thereof; the total metal-bearing materials to be accounted for and the dutiable contents thereof; the quantities of metal-bearing materials on hand at the end of the period and the dutiable contents thereof; and the quantities of metal-bearing materials worked during the period and the dutiable contents thereof. The statement of the quantity of metal-bearing materials worked during the period shall show the quantity of foreign material and the quantity of domestic material put in process during the smelting operations. The statement shall contain such further information concerning the quantities and kinds of metals and intermediary products produced at the plant as will show the wastage sustained in the smelting and refining operation.
