
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### International Traffic
###### § 10.41 Instruments; exceptions.

(a) Locomotives and other railroad equipment, trucks, buses, taxicabs, and other vehicles used in international traffic shall be subject to the treatment provided for in part 123 of this chapter.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Foreign-owned aircraft arriving in the United States shall be subject to the treatment provided for in part 122 of this chapter, unless entered under the provisions of §§ 10.31, 10.183, or paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) Any foreign-owned locomotive or other railroad equipment, truck, bus, taxicab, or other vehicle, aircraft, or undocumented boat brought into the United States for the purpose of carrying merchandise or passengers between points in the United States for hire or as an element of a commercial transaction, except as provided at §§ 123.12 (a) and (b), 123.14(c), and 141.4(b)(4), is subject to treatment as an importation of merchandise from a foreign country and a regular entry for such vehicle, aircraft or boat will be made. The use of any such vehicle, aircraft, or boat without a proper entry having been made may result in liabilities being incurred under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592).

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Material for the maintenance or repair of international cables under the high seas, if requiring storage in special tanks for preservation, may be placed in tanks specially bonded for the purpose and withdrawn therefrom for high-seas installation without the payment of duty and without limitation of the storage period to the usual 3-year warehousing period. International cables laid under the territorial waters of the United States but not brought on shore in the United States shall be admitted without entry or the payment of duty. With respect to international cables laid under the territorial waters of the United States but brought on shore in the United States, only that part of the cable in the United States between the point of entry into the territorial waters of the United States and the first point of support on land in the United States shall be admitted without the payment of duty.
