
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Container Stations
##### ยง 19.44 Carrier responsibility.

(a) If merchandise is transferred directly to a container station from an importing carrier, the importing carrier shall remain liable under the terms of its bond for the proper safekeeping and delivery of the merchandise until it is formally receipted for by the container station operator.

(b) If merchandise is transferred directly from a bonded carrier's facility to a container station or is delivered directly to the container station by a bonded carrier, the bonded carrier shall remain liable under the terms of his bond for the proper safekeeping and delivery of the merchandise until it is formally receipted for by the container station operator.

(c) In either case under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the importing carrier and the bonded carrier, as applicable, shall be responsible for assuring that the provisions of subpart A, part 158 of this chapter, relating to quantity determinations, and discrepancy reporting and accountability are followed.

(d) The importing carrier and the bonded carrier, as applicable, shall indicate concurrence in the transfer of the merchandise either by signing the application for transfer or by physically turning the merchandise over to the operator.

(e) The importing carrier and the bonded carrier, as applicable, shall be responsible for ascertaining that the person to whom a container is delivered for transfer to the container station is an authorized representative of the operator.

(f) The importing carrier and the bonded carrier, as applicable, shall furnish an abstract manifest showing the bill of lading number, the marks and numbers of the container, and the usual manifest description for each shipment in the container.

(g) If a container station operator chooses to collect merchandise from within the boundaries of the district (see definition of "district" at ยง 112.1) in which the container station is located and transport the merchandise to his container station, the container station operator must formally receipt for the merchandise at the time of collection, and he becomes liable under his bond for proper safekeeping of the merchandise at that time.
