
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 19 - CUSTOMS WAREHOUSES, CONTAINER STATIONS AND CONTROL OF MERCHANDISE THEREIN
#### Container Stations
##### ยง 19.48 Suspension or revocation of the privilege of operating a container station; hearings.
###### Hearing on appeal.

(c)If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee within 30 days following application therefor. The container station operator shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 days prior thereto. The container station operator may be represented by counsel at the revocation or suspension hearing. All testimony in the proceeding shall be subject to cross-examination. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the container station operator. At the conclusion of such proceeding or review of a written appeal, the hearing officer or the port director, as the case may be, shall forthwith transmit all papers and the stenographic record of any hearing, to the Commissioner of Customs, together with his recommendation for final action. Following a hearing and within 10 calendar days after delivery of a copy of the stenographic record, the container station operator may submit to the Commissioner of Customs, in writing, additional views and arguments on the basis of such record. If neither the container station operator nor his attorney appear for a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer shall conclude the hearing and transmit all papers with his recommendation to the Commissioner of Customs. The Commissioner shall thereafter render his decision, in writing, stating his reasons therefor, with respect to the action proposed by the hearing officer or the port director. Such decision shall be transmitted to the port director and served by him on the container station operator.
