
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.3a CBP bills; interest assessment on bills; delinquency; notice to principal and surety.
##### Interest rate and applicability.,Customs Bulletin and Decisions

(c)(1) The percentage rate of interest to be charged on such bills will be based upon the quarterly rate(s) established under sections 6621 and 6622 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 6621, 6622). The current rate of interest will appear on the CBP bill and may be obtained from the IRS or the CBP's Revenue Division, Office of Administration. For the convenience of the importing public and CBP personnel, CBP publishes the current interest rate(s) in theandon a quarterly basis.

(2) The percentage rate of interest applied to an overdue bill will be adjusted as necessary to reflect any change in the annual rate of interest.

(3) Interest on overdue bills will be assessed on the delinquent principal amount by 30-day periods. No interest charge will be assessed for the 30-day period in which the payment is actually received at the "Send Payment To" location designated on the bill.

(4) In the case of any late payment, the payment received will first be applied to the interest charge on the delinquent principal amount and then to payment of the delinquent principal amount.

(5) The date to be used in crediting the payment is the date on which the payment is received by CBP.
