
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.4 Optional method for payment of estimated import taxes on alcoholic beverages upon entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption.
##### Termination of deferred payment privilege.

(h)(1) When any bill on Customs Form 6084 for deferred taxes is not paid within the period specified in paragraph (f) of this section, a demand for payment shall be made to the surety on the importer's bond. If in the opinion of the customs officer concerned such failure to make timely payment of estimated deferred taxes warrants the withdrawal of the tax deferral privilege, he will advise the importer of the withdrawal of such privilege. In all instances of failure to pay timely the deferred taxes on alcoholic beverages withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, further withdrawals from the warehouse entry on which the tax is delinquent will be refused until payment is made of the amount delinquent.

(2) The termination at any port of the tax deferral privilege for failure to pay timely any deferred estimated tax shall be at the discretion of the Customs officer concerned. Termination of the privilege for any other reason shall be subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Customs. Notice of termination of the tax deferral privilege at any port will be disseminated to all other Customs ports.

(3) Renewal of the tax deferral privilege after it has been withdrawn at any port may be made only upon approval of the Commissioner of Customs.
