
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.12 Customs fees; charges for storage.
##### Customs Bulletin

(2) No fee will be charged for furnishing an official certificate if the request is made to Customs at the time the entry summary is filed. However, Customs shall charge and collect a fee of $10.00 for each hour or fraction thereof for time spent by each clerical, professional or supervisor in finding the documents and furnishing an official certification if the request is made after the entry documents are filed, plus a charge of 15 cents per page for photcopying. The fee may be revised periodically by publication of a general notice in theandsetting forth the revised fee. The published revised fee shall remain in effect until changed.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The rates charged for storage in Government-owned or rented buildings shall not be less than the charges made at the port by commercial concerns for the storage and handling of merchandise. Except as to an examination package covered by an application for an entry by appraisement, storage shall be charged on any examination package for any period it remains in the appraiser's store after 2 full working days following the day on which the permit to release or transfer was issued. As to an examination package covered by an application for an entry by appraisement, storage shall be charged for any period it remains in the appraiser's store after 2 full working days following the day of issuance to the importer of oral or written notice of the amount of duties or taxes required to be deposited or that the package is ready for delivery. If the port director finds that circumstances make it impractical to remove examination packages from the appraiser's store within the 2-day period, he may extend the period for not to exceed 3 additional working days, without storage charges. In computing the 2 working days, and any authorized extension, (1) the day on which the permit to release or transfer is issued, or the day on which the notice is issued of the amount of duties or taxes that shall be deposited or that the package is ready for delivery, whichever is applicable, (2) Saturdays, (3) Sundays, and (4) National holidays, shall be excluded.

(d) Pursuant to the progressive clearance procedures set forth in ยง 122.88 of this chapter, when airlines commingle domestic (stopover) passengers who have already cleared Customs at their port of arrival and are continuing on to another U.S. destination, with international passengers who are arriving at their port of arrival and have not yet cleared Customs, a progressive clearance fee of $2.00 per domestic (stopover) passenger reinspection in the U.S. will be charged by Customs to the affected airlines to offset the additional cost to Customs of reinspecting passengers who have already been cleared. The fee is in addition to any other charges currently incurred, such as overtime services, but will not apply to passengers reinspected on an overtime basis if the cost of performing such reinspection is reimbursed to Customs in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1451. The fee will not apply to the reinspection of non-revenue producing passengers, including but not limited to, employees of the carrier and their dependents, deadhead crew, employees of other carriers who may be assessed a service charge by the transporting carrier, and other persons to whom the carrier is authorized to provide free transportation pursuant to 14 CFR part 233. The airline industry will be notified at least 90 days in advance of the date of any change in the amount of the fee necessitated by either an increase or decrease in costs to Customs, but no new fee shall take effect before January 1, 1986.
