
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.13 Car, compartment, and package seals; kind, procurement.
##### Purchase of seals.

(c)Bonded carriers of merchandise, commercial associations representing the foregoing or comparable organizations approved by the port director under paragraph (f) of this section, a foreign trade zone operator and bonded warehouse proprietors may purchase quantity supplies of in-bond and in-transit seals from manufacturers approved under the provisions of ยง 24.13a. The order shall be prepared by the purchaser and, except as hereinafter noted, shall be confined to seals for use at one port and shall specify the kind and quantity of seals desired, the name of the port at which they are to be used, and the name and address of the consignee to whom they are to be shipped. Seals for use on airline liquor kits need not specify the name of the port at which they are to be used, and orders for such seals need not be confined to seals for use at one port. Carriers and bonded warehouse proprietors may purchase small emergency supplies of in-bond and in-transit seals from port directors, who will keep a supply of such seals for this purpose. An order for green or uncolored in-transit seals shall be submitted to the office of the Director of Customs-Excise Inspection, Ottowa, Canada, for approval and forwarding to the manufacturer. An order for green strap-in bond seals for use on railroad cars must stipulate that the seals are to be consigned to the collector of customs and excise in Canada at the port indicated on the seals for entry purposes and storage under Customs lock and key.

(d) The manufacturer or supplier shall ship the seals to the consignee named in the order and shall advise the director of the port to which the seals are shipped as to the kind and quantity of seals shipped, the name of the port (where required), serial numbers, and symbol number (where required) stamped thereon, the name and address of the consignee, and the date of shipment.

(e) [Reserved]
