
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### § 24.16 Overtime services; overtime compensation and premium pay for Customs Officers; rate of compensation.
##### Application and bond.

(c)(1) Except as provided for in paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section, an application for inspectional services of Customs Officers at night or on a Sunday or holiday, Customs Form 3171, supported by the required cash deposit or bond, shall be filed in the office of the port director before the assignment of such officers for reimbursable overtime services. The cash deposit to secure reimbursement shall be fixed by the port director or authorized representative in an amount sufficient to pay the maximum probable compensation and expenses of the Customs Officers, or the maximum amount which may be charged by law, whichever is less, in connection with the particular services requested. The bond to secure reimbursement shall be on Customs Form 301, containing the appropriate bond conditions set forth in subpart G, part 113 of this chapter (see §§ 113.62, 113.63, 113.64 and 113.73), and in an amount to be fixed by the port director, unless another bond containing a provision to secure reimbursement is on file. A bond given on Customs Form 301, containing the appropriate bond conditions set forth in subpart G, part 113 of this chapter (see §§ 113.62, 113.63, 113.64 and 113.73), to secure the payment of overtime services rendered private aircraft and private vessels shall be taken without surety or cash deposit in lieu of surety, and the bond shall be modified to so indicate.

(2) Prior to the expected arrival of a pleasure vessel or private aircraft the port director may designate a Customs Officer to proceed to the place of expected arrival to receive an application for night, Sunday, or holiday services in connection with the arrival of such vessel or aircraft, together with the required cash deposit or bond. In each such case the assignment to perform services shall be conditional upon the receipt of the appropriate application and security. Where the security is a cash deposit, the receipt may be properly inscribed to make it serve as a combined receipt for cash deposit in lieu of bond and request for overtime services, in lieu of filing a request for overtime services on Customs Form 3171.

(3) An application on Customs Form 3171 for overtime services of Customs Officers, when supported by the required cash deposit or a continuous bond, may be granted for a period not longer than for 1 year. In such a case, the application must show the exact times when the overtime services will be needed, unless arrangements are made so that the proper Customs Officer will be notified timely during official hours in advance of the services requested as to the exact times that the services will be needed.

(4) Inspectional services will be provided to owners or operators of aircraft without charge for overtime on Sundays and holidays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Applications for inspectional services for aircraft during those hours shall be filed as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but without cash deposit or bond.
