
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.16 Overtime services; overtime compensation and premium pay for Customs Officers; rate of compensation.
##### Holiday differential.

(1)A Customs Officer who performs any regularly-scheduled work on a holiday shall receive pay for that work at the officer's hourly rate of base pay, which includes authorized locality pay, plus premium pay amounting to 100 percent of that base rate. Holiday differential premium pay will be paid only for time worked. Intermittent employees are not entitled to holiday differentials.

(i) When a holiday is designated by a calendar date, for example, January 1, July 4, November 11, or December 25, the holiday will be observed on that date regardless of Saturdays and Sundays. Customs Officers who perform regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tours of duty on those days shall be paid the holiday differential. Holidays not designated by a specific calendar date, such as President's Day (the third Monday in February), shall be observed on that date, and Customs Officers who perform regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, work on those days shall be paid the holiday differential.

(ii) Inauguration Day (January 20 of each fourth year after 1965), is a legal public holiday for the purpose of the Act. Customs Officers whose duty locations are in the District of Columbia, or Montgomery and Prince George counties in Maryland, or Arlington and Fairfax counties in Virginia, or in the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church in Virginia, who perform regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, work on that day shall be paid the holiday differential. When Inauguration Day falls on Sunday, the next succeeding day selected for the public observance of the inauguration of the President is the legal public holiday.

(iii) If a legal holiday falls on a Customs Officer's regularly-scheduled day off, the officer shall receive a holiday "in lieu of" that day. Holidays "in lieu of" shall not be granted for Inauguration Day. A Customs Officer who works on an "in lieu of" holiday shall be paid the holiday differential.

(iv) If a Customs Officer is assigned to a regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty which contains hours within and outside the 24-hour calendar day of a holiday-for example, a tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on a Monday holiday following a scheduled day off on Sunday and ending at 4 a.m. on Tuesday-the Customs Officer shall receive the holiday differential (up to 8 hours) for work performed during that shift. If the Customs Officer is assigned more than one regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty which contains hours within and outside the 24-hour calendar day of a holiday-for example, a tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on the Wednesday before a Thursday holiday and ending at 4 a.m. on Thursday with another regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on the Thursday holiday and ending at 4 a.m. on Friday-the management official in charge of assigning work shall designate one of the tours of duty as the officer's holiday shift and the officer shall receive holiday differential (up to 8 hours) for work performed during the entire period of the designated holiday shift. The Customs Officer shall not receive holiday differential for any of the work performed on the tour of duty which has not been designated as the holiday shift but will be eligible for Sunday or night differential as appropriate.

(v) Customs Officers who are regularly scheduled, but not required, to work on a holiday shall receive their hourly rate of base pay for that 8-hour tour plus any Sunday or night differential they would have received had the day not been designated as a holiday. To receive holiday pay under this paragraph, the Customs Officer must be in a pay status (at work or on paid leave), either the last work day before the holiday or the first work day following the holiday.

(vi) A Customs Officer who works only a portion of a regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, holiday shift will be paid the holiday differential for the actual hours worked and the appropriate differential (Sunday or night) for the remaining portion of the shift such officer was not required to work. The night differential premium pay shall be calculated based on the rate applicable to the entire shift.
