
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Withdrawal of Supplies and Equipment for Vessels
###### § 10.60 Forms of withdrawals; bond.

(a) Withdrawals from warehouse shall be made on CBP Form 7501. Each withdrawal must contain the statement prescribed for withdrawals in § 144.32 of this chapter and all of the statistical information as provided in § 141.61(e) of this chapter. Withdrawals from continuous CBP custody elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse must be made by filing an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter, except as provided for by paragraph (h) of this section. When a withdrawal of supplies or other articles is made which may be used on a vessel while it is proceeding in ballast to another port as provided for by § 10.59(a)(3), a notation of this fact shall be made on the withdrawal and the name of the other port given if known.

(b) If the withdrawal is made by other than the principal on the warehouse or rewarehouse entry, as the case may be, the assent of such principal shall be endorsed on the withdrawal, unless the principal has otherwise authorized such withdrawal in writing.

(c) A bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter shall be taken when the withdrawal from warehouse is made by a person other than the principal on the warehouse or rewarehouse entry, as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Except as otherwise provided in § 10.62b, relating to withdrawals from warehouse of aircraft turbine fuel to be used within 30 days of such withdrawal as supplies on aircraft under section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, when the supplies are to be laden at a port other than the port of withdrawal from warehouse, they shall be withdrawn for transportation in bond to the port of lading by filing an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter. The procedure shall be the same as that prescribed in 144.37 of this chapter.

(e) No bond shall be required in the case of war vessels.

(f) Unless transfer is permitted under the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section, when articles are withdrawn from continuous Customs custody elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse for lading at the port of withdrawal, the procedure provided for in § 18.25 of this chapter shall be followed. Unless transfer is permitted under the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section, when articles are withdrawn from continuous Customs custody elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse for lading at another port, the procedure set forth in § 18.26 of this chapter shall be followed. There shall be such examination of the articles as may be necessary to satisfy the port director that they are subject to the privileges of section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and that the value and quantity declared for them are correct.

(g) A withdrawal under § 10.59(e) shall be supported by a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter.

(h) If a request is made for permission to transfer supplies or stores from one vessel to another which would be entitled to withdraw them free of duty and tax under section 309 or 317, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the port director in his discretion may permit the articles to be so transferred under Customs supervision under a permit on Customs Form 3171 in lieu of a formal withdrawal under the pertinent statute. In such a case, the pertinent statute shall be indicated by an endorsement made on the permit by the port director.
