
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.17 Reimbursable services of CBP employees.
##### et seq.),

(1) The charge to be made for the reimbursable services of a CBP employee to perform on a holiday or outside the established basic workweek shall be the amount actually payable to the employee for such services under the Federal Employees Pay Act of 1945, as amended (5 U.S.C. 5542(a), 5546), or the Customs overtime laws (19 U.S.C. 267, 1451), or both, as the case may be. When such services are performed by an intermittent when-actually-employed employee, the charge for such services shall be computed at a rate per hour equal to 108 percent of the hourly rate of the regular pay of such employee to provide for reimbursement of the Government's contribution under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, as amended (25 U.S.C. 3101,and employee uniform allowance. The time charged shall include any time within the regular working hours of the employee required for travel between the duty assignment and the place where the employee is regularly employed excluding lunch periods, charged in multiples of 1 hour, any fractional part of an hour to be charged as 1 hour when the services are performed during the regularly scheduled tour of duty of the officer or between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays when the officer has no regularly scheduled tour of duty. In no case shall the charge be less than $1.

(2) The necessary transportation expenses and any authorized per diem expenses of a CBP employee assigned to perform reimbursable services at a location at which he is not regularly assigned shall be reimbursed by the responsible party.

(3) When a CBP employee is regularly assigned to duty at more than one location, the charge for his compensation and transportation expenses in going from one location to another shall be equitably apportioned among the parties concerned. However, no charge shall be made for transportation expenses when a CBP employee is reporting to as a first assignment, or leaving from as a last assignment, a place where he is regularly assigned to duty.

(4) Upon a failure to pay such charges when due, or to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, the port director shall report the facts to the Accounting Services-Accounts Receivable, which shall take appropriate action to collect the charges.

(e) The reimbursable charge for customs overtime compensation shall be computed in accordance with ยง 24.16.
