
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.22 Fees for certain services.
##### See,www.cbp.gov.

This section sets forth the terms and conditions for when the fees and corresponding limitations for certain services are required. Except as provided in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, the specific customs user fee amounts and corresponding limitations that appear in this section are not the actual fees or limitations but represent the base year amounts that are subject to adjustment each fiscal year in accordance with the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) using Fiscal Year 2014 as the base year for comparison. (appendix A to part 24 for a table setting forth the fees and limitations subject to adjustment along with the corresponding statutory authority, the regulatory citation, the name of the fee or limitation, and the Fiscal Year 2014 base amount which reflects the statutory amounts that were adjusted by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Pub. L. 108-357).) The methodology for adjusting the fees and limitations to reflect the percentage, if any, of the increase in the average of the Consumer Price Index-All Urban Consumers, U.S. All items, 1982-84 (CPI-U) for the preceding 12-month period (June through May) compared to the Consumer Price Index for fiscal year 2014 is set forth in paragraph (k) of this section. CBP will determine annually whether an adjustment to the fees and limitations is necessary and a notice specifying the amount of the fees and limitations will be published in theannually for each fiscal year at least 60 days prior to the effective date of the new fees and limitations. The fees and the limitations will also be maintained for the public's convenience on the CBP Web site atIf a customs user has pre-paid or met the calendar year limit prior to the effective date of the new fees and limitations, no additional fees will be required for that calendar year. If the customs user has not pre-paid or met the calendar year limit prior to the effective date of the new fees and limitations, the customs user will be subject to the adjusted limitation or prepayment amount.
