
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Withdrawal of Supplies and Equipment for Vessels
###### ยง 10.62 Bunker fuel oil.
####### Withdrawal under section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309).

(a)Except as otherwise provided in ยง 10.62b, relating to withdrawals from warehouse of aircraft turbine fuel to be used within 30 days of such withdrawal as supplies on aircraft under section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309), when all the bunker fuel oil in a Customs bonded tank is intended only for lading duty free as supplies on vessels under section 309 at the port where the tank is located, delivery of the oil, by Customs bonded carrier, cartman, or lighterman (including bonded pipelines), under withdrawals on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, either single or blanket, may be made without the presence of a Customs officer. When a blanket withdrawal is filed and a partial release takes place, the partial release procedure set forth in ยง 19.6(d) of this chapter shall be followed for each partial release. However, each abstract copy of Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, shall include the following additional information:

(1) Type of oil withdrawn.

(2) Number or other identification of sales order therefor.

(3) Name of bonded carrier, date it received oil.

(4) Receipt signed by master or other person in charge of delivering conveyance identified by number, or name, and if Customs bonded lighterman or cartman, by the carrier's license number.

(5) Name and location of vessel obtaining oil.

(6) Quantity and identification of each type of oil received with date, and signature and title of receiving officer. If all the oil is laden on the receiving vessel at the port of withdrawal via pipeline from the bonded storage tank, paragraphs (a) (3) and (4) of this section shall be deemed to be inapplicable.

(b) If a blanket free withdrawal of bunker fuel oil is filed, to comply with Bureau of the Census requirements the withdrawal on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, shall be endorsed "Estimated Withdrawals" and limited to the aggregate quantity and value of fuel oil which it is estimated will be physically removed from Customs bond during the calendar month in which the withdrawal is filed for lading on vessels entitled to duty-free vessel supplies under section 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended.

(c)(1) As an incident of the delivery of fuel oils classifiable at different rates of duty to a vessel or vessels under section 309 of the tariff act, the port director may, when necessary to enable a supplier to meet fuel specifications, permit the blending of the oils in the delivering conveyance or in other suitable facilities after withdrawal from the bonded tanks, upon the condition that, to the extent of the amount of oil withdrawn classifiable at the higher rate, duty at the higher rate will be paid on any portion of the blended fuel oil not delivered within a reasonable time to a qualified vessel. The withdrawer shall be required to file a withdrawal for consumption for the excess quantity withdrawn. For example, if the quantity withdrawn consists of 1,500 barrels of bunker C fuel oil classifiable at the rate of one-eighth cent per gallon and 500 barrels of diesel oil classifiable at the rate of one-fourth cent per gallon but only 1,400 barrels of the blended oil are actually laden as fuel supplies on qualified vessels, withdrawals for consumption are required for 500 barrels of diesel oil at the higher rate and for 100 barrels of bunker C fuel oil at the lower rate.
