
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.22 Fees for certain services.
##### Statement filing and payment procedures.

(4)(i) The Association of American Railroads (AAR), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), and any railroad company preferring to act individually, must file monthly statements with CBP, and must make payment of the arrival fees to CBP, in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (d)(4) (ii) and (i) of this section. Each monthly statement must indicate:

(A) The number of railroad cars subject to the arrival fee during the relevant period;

(B) The number of such railroad cars pulled by each carrier; and

(C) The total processing fees due from each carrier for the relevant period.

(ii) AMTRAK and railroad companies acting individually must file each monthly statement within 60 days after the end of the applicable calendar month, and the fees covered by each statement must be remitted with the statement. Monthly statements prepared by the AAR on behalf of individual railroad companies must be filed within 60 days after the end of the applicable calendar month, and each railroad company must remit the fees as calculated for it by the AAR within 60 days after the end of that calendar month. In cases of conflict between the AAR and an individual railroad company regarding calculation of the fees, the railroad company must timely remit the amount as calculated by the AAR even if the dispute is unresolved. Subsequent settlements may be accounted for by an explanation in, and adjustment of, the next payment to CBP. Payment must be made in accordance with the procedures and payment methods set forth in this paragraph and paragraph (i) of this section.
