
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Withdrawal of Supplies and Equipment for Vessels
###### ยง 10.62 Bunker fuel oil.
####### Delivering transferer receipt.

(2)The receipt of the delivering carrier on a copy of Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, for fuel oil which has been blended under paragraph (c)(1) of this section with components classifiable at different rates of duty shall show, for each warehouse entry number and withdrawal number involved, the types and quantity of oil received.

(d) Fuel oil withdrawn as vessel supplies at one port may be laden at another port on a vessel or vessels entitled to the free withdrawal privileges of section 309 of the tariff act, under procedures prescribed in this section, provided the movement to the receiving vessel or vessels is under the bond of a qualified carrier as described in ยง 18.1(a) of this chapter. In such cases, the provisions of ยง 10.60(d) of this chapter shall be deemed inapplicable.

(e) If a vessel not entitled to duty-free withdrawal of supplies from Customs bonded warehouses under section 309 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, should be supplied with fuel oil from a Customs bonded tank described in paragraph (a) of this section because of an emergency, a duty paid withdrawal therefor shall be filed on the first day that the customhouse is open for the general transaction of business after the day on which the oil is laden on the using vessel. If there should be willful or repeated instances of late filing of a duty-paid withdrawal in such cases, the port director shall require a duty-paid withdrawal to be filed prior to the removal of fuel oil from the bonded tank.

(f) When the procedures prescribed in this section are followed, representatives of the port director will from time to time verify various withdrawals against all pertinent records, including financial records, of the withdrawers, deliverers, and receivers of the oil. The withdrawer shall maintain all pertinent records relating to the withdrawal, delivery, or receipt of the fuel oil for 5 years from the date of liquidation of the related fuel oil entry.
