
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.22 Fees for certain services.
##### Fees for arrival of passengers aboard commercial vessels and commercial aircraft,Fees.

(g)-(1)(i) Subject to paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (g)(3) of this section, a fee of $5.50, as adjusted by the terms of paragraph (k) of this section, must be collected and remitted to CBP for services provided in connection with the arrival of each passenger aboard a commercial vessel or commercial aircraft from a place outside the United States except:

(A) When the journey of the arriving passenger originates in a territory or possession of the United States;

(B) When the journey of the arriving passenger originates in the United States and was limited to the territories and possessions of the United States; or

(C) When arriving from one of the territories or possessions of the United States.

(ii) Subject to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a fee of $1.93, as adjusted by the terms of paragraph (k) of this section, must be collected and remitted to CBP for services provided in connection with the arrival of each passenger aboard a commercial vessel from a territory or possession of the United States, regardless of whether the journey of the arriving passenger originates in a place outside the United States or in the United States.

(iii) For the purposes of this paragraph (g), the term "territories and possessions of the United States" includes American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (g), a journey, which may encompass multiple destinations and more than one mode of transportation, will be deemed to originate in the location where the person's travel begins under cover of a transaction which includes the issuance of a ticket or travel document for transportation into the customs territory of the United States.

(v) For purposes of this paragraph (g), the term "passenger" means a natural person for whom transportation is provided and includes an infant whether a separate ticket or travel document is issued for the infant or the infant occupies a seat or is held or carried by another passenger.

(vi) For purposes of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, the term "commercial vessel" includes any ferry that began operations on or after August 1, 1999, and operates south of 27 degrees latitude and east of 89 degrees longitude.

(vii) In the case of a commercial vessel making a single voyage involving two or more United States ports, the applicable fee prescribed under paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (g)(1)(ii) of this section is required to be charged only one time for each passenger.
