
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.22 Fees for certain services.
##### Information submission and fee remittance procedures.,Pay.gov,,Pay.gov,CUFIUFHelp@cbp.dhs.gov.,Pay.gov,Pay.gov

(i)In addition to any information specified elsewhere in this section, each payment made by mail must be accompanied by information identifying the person or organization remitting the fee, the type of fee being remitted (for example, railroad car, commercial truck, private vessel), and the time period to which the payment applies and must be mailed to the following address: U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Revenue Division, Attn: User Fee Team, 6650 Telecom Drive, Suite 100, Indianapolis, IN 46278. All fee payments required under this section in U.S. dollars, and must be paid in accordance with the provisions of ยง 24.1. The fees may be made using any payment method authorized by ยง 24.1 and for which the CBP location receiving the payment is equipped to process, and are subject to any restrictions as described elsewhere in this section. To pay railroad user fees onan email must be sent to the Office of Administration, Revenue Division to establish aaccount. The email address for this purpose isOnce theaccount is established, payments may be made directly onwithout a further need to contact CBP. Where payment is made at a CBP port, credit cards will be accepted only where the port is equipped to accept credit cards for the type of payment being made. Check or money orders must be made payable to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and must be annotated with the appropriate class code. The applicable class codes and payment locations for each fee are as follows:

(1) Fee under paragraph (b)(1) of this section (commercial vessels of 100 net tons or more other than barges and other bulk carriers from Canada or Mexico): class code 491. Payment location: port of arrival for each individual arrival (fee to be collected by CBP at the time of arrival) or prepayment at the port in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section;

(2) Fee under paragraph (b)(2) of this section (barges and other bulk carriers from Canada or Mexico): class code 498. Payment location: port of arrival for each individual arrival (fee to be collected by CBP at the time of arrival) or prepayment at the port in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section;

(3) Fee under paragraph (c) of this section (commercial vehicles): for each individual arrival, class code 492 for the CBP fee and class code 482 for the APHIS/AQI fee; for prepayment of the maximum calendar year fee, class code 902 for the CBP fee and class code 483 for the APHIS/AQI fee. Payment location: port of arrival for each individual arrival (fee to be collected by CBP at the time of arrival) or prepayment in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section;

(4) Fee under paragraph (d) of this section (railroad cars): for each individual arrival (under the monthly payment and statement filing procedure), class code 493; for prepayment of the maximum calendar year fee, class code 903. Payment location: for individual arrivals (monthly payment and statement filing), see paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section; for prepayment, see paragraph (d)(3) of this section;

(5) Fee under paragraph (e) of this section (private vessels and aircraft): for private vessels, class code 904; for private aircraft, class code 494. Payment location: port of arrival for each individual arrival (fee to be collected by CBP at the time of arrival) or prepayment in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section;

(6) Fee under paragraph (f) of this section (dutiable mail): class code 496. Payment location: see paragraph (f) of this section;

(7) Fee under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section (the $5.50 fee for commercial vessel and commercial aircraft passengers, as adjusted in accordance with the terms of paragraph (k) of this section): class code 495. Payment location: see paragraph (g)(5) of this section;

(8) Fee under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section (the $1.93 fee for commercial vessel passengers, as adjusted in accordance with the terms of paragraph (k) of this section): class code 484. Payment location: see paragraph (g)(5) of this section; and

(9) Fee under paragraph (h) of this section (customs broker permits): for national permits, class code 997. Payment location: see paragraph (h) of this section.
