
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.22 Fees for certain services.
##### Methodology for annual adjustments of fees and limitation amounts for inflation.

(2)CBP will determine the adjustments, if any, by making the following calculations:

(i) Calculate the arithmetic average of the Consumer Price Index-All Urban Consumers, U.S. All items, 1982-84 = 100 (CPI-U) for the current year based on the most recent June-May period. This figure is referred to as (A).

(ii) Calculate the arithmetic average of the CPI-U for FY 2014. This figure is referred to as (B).

(iii) State the arithmetic average of CPI-U for the comparison year which will be either (B) if the fees have never been adjusted in accordance with this paragraph (k), or the arithmetic average of the CPI-U for the last year in which fees were adjusted in accordance with this paragraph (k) as set forth in thenotice that last adjusted the fee. This figure is referred to as (C).

(iv) Calculate the difference between the arithmetic averages of the CPI-U of the comparison year (C) and the current year (A). This difference is referred to as (D). (D) = (A)-(C).

(v) Round the difference (D) to the nearest whole number. This figure is referred to as (E).

(vi) Calculate the percentage change in the arithmetic averages of the CPI-U of the comparison year (C) and the current year (A) which is referred to as (F). (F) = ((E) &#xF7; (C)) x 100%.

(vii) If (F) is one percent or more, proceed to the next step (viii). If (F) is less than one percent, no adjustment will be made.

(viii) Calculate the difference in the arithmetic average of the CPI-U between the current year (the most recent June through May period) and the base year (FY 2014). This difference is referred to as (G). (G) = (A)-(B).

(ix) Calculate the percentage change in the CPI-U from the base year to the current year. This figure is referred to as (H). (H) = ((G) &#xF7; (B)) x 100%.

(x) Increase the fees and limitations that are subject to the rules of this paragraph by (H), calculating fees and limitations to the second decimal.
