
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.23 Fees for processing merchandise.
##### Express consignment carrier and centralized hub facilities,General.

(4)-(i)Each carrier or operator using an express consignment carrier facility or a centralized hub facility must pay to CBP a fee in the amount of $1.00, as adjusted in accordance with the terms of paragraph (k) of ยง 24.22 of this chapter, per individual air waybill or individual bill of lading for the processing of airway bills for shipments arriving in the United States. In addition, if merchandise is formally entered and valued at $2,500 or less, the importer of record must pay to CBP the ad valorem fee specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if applicable. An individual air waybill or individual bill of lading is the individual document issued by the carrier or operator for transporting and/or tracking an individual item, letter, package, envelope, record, document, or shipment. An individual air waybill is not a consolidation of several air waybills, and is not a master bill or other consolidated document. An individual air waybill or bill of lading is a bill representing an individual shipment that has its own unique bill number and tracking number, where the shipment is assigned to a single ultimate consignee, and no lower bill unit exists. Payment must be made to CBP on a quarterly basis and must cover the individual fees for all subject transactions that occurred during a calendar quarter.
