
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.24 Harbor maintenance fee.
##### Exemptions.

(c)The following are not subject to the fee:

(1) Bunker fuel, ship's stores, sea stores and vessel equipment.

(2) Fish or other aquatic animal life, caught and not previously landed on shore.

(3) Ferries engaged primarily in the transport of passengers and their vehicles between points within the U.S. or between the U.S. and contiguous countries.

(4) Certain loadings and unloadings of cargo in Alaska, Hawaii, or the possessions of the U.S. as defined in this paragraph.

(i) Descriptions of exempt loadings/unloadings:

(A) Cargo loaded on a vessel in a port in the U.S. mainland for transportation to Alaska, Hawaii, or any possession of the U.S. for ultimate use or consumption in Alaska, Hawaii, or any possession of the U.S.

(B) Cargo loaded on a vessel in Alaska, Hawaii, or any possession of the U.S. for transportation to the U.S. mainland for ultimate use or consumption in the U.S. mainland.

(C) Cargo described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section unloaded in Alaska, Hawaii, or any possession of the U.S.

(D) Cargo described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section unloaded in the U.S. mainland.

(E) Cargo loaded on a vessel in Alaska, Hawaii, or a possession of the U.S. and unloaded in the state or possession in which loaded.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(4) of this section:
