
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### § 24.24 Harbor maintenance fee.
##### http://www.pay.gov.

(i) The donated cargo is required to be certified as intended for use in humanitarian or development assistance overseas by CBP. Subsequent to payment of the fee, a refund request may be made by electronically submitting to CBP the Harbor Maintenance Fee Amended Quarterly Summary Report (CBP Form 350), as well as the Harbor Maintenance Fee Quarterly Summary Report (CBP Form 349) for the quarter covering the payment to which the refund request relates, using the Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) via an Internet account established by the payer and located atIn the alternative, the requisite forms may be mailed to the Office of Administration, Revenue Division, Customs and Border Protection, using the current address posted at Forms.CBP.gov. Upon request by CBP, the party requesting the refund must also submit to CBP, via mail, any supporting documentation deemed necessary by CBP to certify that the entity donating the cargo is a nonprofit organization or cooperative and that the cargo was intended for humanitarian or development assistance overseas (including contiguous countries). A description of the cargo listed in the shipping documents and a brief summary of the intended use of the goods, if such use in not reflected in the documents, are acceptable evidence for certification purposes. Approved HMF refund payments will be made via ACH to those payers who are enrolled in the ACH refund program; all others will receive HMF refund payments via mail.

(ii) Each nonprofit organization or cooperative claiming the exemption under this subpart must maintain documentation pertaining to the exemption for a period of 5 years. The documentation must be made available for inspection by CBP in accordance with the provisions of §§ 162.1a through 162.1i of this chapter.
