
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.24 Harbor maintenance fee.
##### Collections, supplemental payments, and refunds,Domestic vessel movements,Time and place of liability.

(e)-(1)-(i)Subject to the exemptions and special rules of this section, when cargo is loaded on a commercial vessel at a port within the definition of this section to be transported between ports in the U.S. or is unloaded from a commercial vessel at a port within the definition of this section after having been transported between ports in the U.S., the shipper (the person or corporation who pays the freight) of that cargo is liable for the payment of the port use fee at the time of unloading. The fee will be imposed only once on a movement pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The fee is to be based upon the value of the cargo as determined by standard commercial documentation where such documentation is available. Otherwise, the value is to be determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a as if it were imported merchandise. The Vessel Operation Report (Army Corps of Engineers Form 3925) is to be completed and submitted to the Army Corps of Engineers in accordance with the procedures set forth in 33 CFR Ch. II, part 207. The shipper's name, either the internal revenue service or social security number of the shipper and the tax exemption code (as it appears in the Vessel Operation Report instructions) claimed for the shipment are to be included on the Vessel Operation Report.
