
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.24 Harbor maintenance fee.
##### 2,HMT Payment Report and Report/Certification.

()In processing a request for a refund, CBP will conduct a search of its records (CBP electronic database and paper document sources) and produce for issuance to the exporter (or its agent, as appropriate) a "Harbor Mantenance Tax Payment Report" (HMT Payment Report) that lists all payments reflected in those records for the entire period the fee was in effect. CBP will also produce for issuance to the exporter a "Harbor Maintenance Tax Refund Report and Certification" (Report/Certification) that lists all payments supported by paper documentation, either retained by CBP (relative to payments made on and after July 1, 1990) or submitted by the exporter with its refund request (relative to payments made at any time the fee was in effect). Where a refund request was filed on the exporter's behalf by an agent other than a freight forwarder, a power of attorney or authorization letter must be filed with CBP before CBP will issue these reports. The Report/Certification sets forth the total amount of the refund that CBP believes it owes the exporter for the payments listed in that report (minus any previous refunds). Pre-July 1, 1990, payments listed in the HMT Payment Report for which paper documentation has not been provided by the exporter will not be listed in the Report/Certification. The exporter has 120 days from the date the HMT Payment Report and the Report/Certification are issued (the 120-day period) to sign and return to CBP the Report/Certification in order to receive the refund set forth in that report and/or to submit to CBP a request for a Revised Report/Certification. Where the exporter chooses to receive the refund set forth in the Report/Certification, the exporter must sign and return the report to CBP. CBP will issue the refund upon receipt of the signed report.
