
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.24 Harbor maintenance fee.
##### 3,Revised Report/Certification.

()A request for a Revised Report/Certification must be accompanied by documentation to support any payments not listed in the Report/Certification or corrections to listed payments. See paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(C) of this section regarding acceptable documentation. If an exporter (or its agent, as appropriate) both signs and returns to CBP a Report/Certification and requests a Revised Report/Certification, CBP will not, when reviewing the request for a Revised Report/Certification, approve for refund any corrections to the payments that were listed in the signed Report/Certification; CBP will, however, in that circumstance, consider approving any additional payments that were not listed in the signed Report/Certification. If an exporter does not sign and return to CBP a Report/Certification, but requests a Revised Report/Certification, CBP will consider approving for refund corrections to the payments listed in the Report/Certification and additional payments. Where the exporter requests a Revised Report/Certification, CBP will review the documentation submitted with the request, make a determination, and, within 60 days of the request's receipt, issue a Revised Report/Certification that lists all payments approved for refund and the total amount of the refund owed. In order to receive the refund set forth in a Revised Report/Certification, the exporter must sign and return it to CBP. CBP will issue the refund upon its receipt of the signed report. An exporter, within the 120-day period, may submit additional requests for a Revised Report/Certification, with appropriate documentation, to cover any payments not approved for refund in a Revised Report/Certification previously issued by CBP.
