
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### § 24.25 Statement processing and Automated Clearinghouse.
##### Description.

(a)Statement processing is a voluntary automated program for participants in the Automated Broker Interface (ABI), allowing the grouping of entry/entry summaries and entry summaries on a daily basis. The related duties, taxes, fees, and interest may be paid with a single payment. The preferred method of payment is by Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) debit or ACH credit, except where the importer of record has provided a separate check payable to the "U.S. Customs and Border Protection" for customs charges (duties, taxes, or other debts owed CBP (see § 111.29(b) of this chapter)). A particular statement payment must be accomplished entirely through ACH or completely by check or cash. A mixing of payment methods for a single statement will not be accepted. ACH debit (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) is an arrangement in which the filer electronically provides payment authorization for the Treasury-designated ACH processor to perform an electronic debit to the payer's bank account; ACH credit is described in § 24.26. The payment amount will then be automatically credited to the account of the Department of the Treasury. If a filer chooses to use statement processing for entries of quota-class merchandise and other special classes of merchandise designated by CBP Headquarters under § 142.13(b) of this chapter, he must also use statement processing as a normal course of business for the largest possible portion (see § 24.25(d)) of his eligible non-special class entries; further, he must use the ACH payment mechanism to pay all his ABI statements containing entries for quota-class merchandise. In no circumstance will check or cash be acceptable for payment of ABI statements containing entries for quota-class merchandise.
