
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.25 Statement processing and Automated Clearinghouse.
##### Automated Clearinghouse debit.

(2)If an ABI filer pays his statements through ACH debit, rather than by check, he must provide to CBP the bank routing number and the bank account number for each account from which ACH payments are to be electronically debited. Upon the determination by CBP that the ABI filer has the necessary software to participate and otherwise qualifies to participate in ACH, CBP shall assign a unique identifying payer's unit number to the participant and the Treasury-designated ACH processor. This unique number assigned by CBP will alert the ACH processor as to which bank and account to issue the electronic debit. If a client of a ABI filer opts to pay CBP charges from his own account through an ABI filer, the client must provide directly to CBP the bank transit routing number and the bank account number for each of his accounts from which ACH payments can be electronically debited. CBP will then assign a unique payer's unit number to each of his accounts and provide the assigned unit number directly to the client and the Treasury-designated ACH processor. The client would then provide the appropriate payer's unit number to his broker to pay his statements through ABI. It is the responsibility of the participant to ensure that all bank account information is accurate and that the correct unique payer's unit number is utilized for each ACH transaction.
