
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.25 Statement processing and Automated Clearinghouse.
##### Procedure for filer.

(c)(1) The filer shall transmit entry/entry summary and entry summary data through ABI indicating whether payment for a particular entry summary will be by individual check or by using statement processing. If statement processing is indicated, the filer shall designate whether the entry summary is to be grouped by importer or broker, and shall provide a valid scheduled statement date (within 10 days of entry, but not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday).

(2) CBP shall provide a preliminary statement to the ABI filer on the scheduled statement date. The preliminary statement shall contain all entry/entry summaries and entry summaries scheduled for that statement date. The preliminary statement shall be printed by the filer, who will review the statement entries and the statement totals, assemble the required entry summaries as listed in the statement, and present them to CBP with the preliminary statement. This presentation must be made within 10 working days after entry of the merchandise. If a filer elects to perform deletions from the preliminary statement (other than items related to special classes of merchandise provided for in ยง 142.13(b) of this chaper), the filer shall notify CBP in such manner as designated by CBP Headquarters. Any entry number deleted from a statement may be paid by an individual check or scheduled for another statement by transmitting the entry summary data through ABI with a future payment date.

(3) The ABI filer using statement processing is responsible for ensuring that payment is made within 10 days of the entry of the related merchandise.

(4) Payments made through ACH are processed as follows:
