
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.25 Statement processing and Automated Clearinghouse.
##### Choice of excluding certain entries from statement processing.

(d)An ABI filer using statement processing, generally, has the right to inform CBP electronically whether he desires that a particular entry summary be paid by individual payment or through statement processing. If a filer opts to use statement processing for entry/entry summaries for quota-class and other special classes of merchandise defined in ยง 142.13(b) of this chapter, he shall use statement processing in the normal course of business for the largest possible portion of his eligible non-special class entries also; further, he shall pay for these entry/entry summaries through ACH. If a filer opts to use statement processing and, therefore, ACH for entry/entry summaries for special classes of merchandise defined in ยง 142.13(b) of this chapter, these entry/entry summaries cannot be deleted from a statement. A filer who excludes or deletes entries from the statement process and ACH should be prepared to articulate a sound business reason why these exclusions or deletions have occurred. If CBP believes that a broker is using ACH for his quota-class entries and not using statement processing and ACH for the largest possible portion of his eligible non-special class entries, the ABI participant may be consulted by CBP as to why he has not used statement processing and ACH for certain entries. If CBP is not satisfied, after such consultation, that there were sound articulable business reasons for the exclusion or deletion of non-special class entries, CBP may disqualify the participant from using statement processing/ACH for quota-class entries.
