
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 24 - CUSTOMS FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE
#### ยง 24.70 Claims; deceased or incompetent public creditors.

(a) Claims for amounts due individual deceased public creditors of the United States (except civilian officers and employees subject to the provisions of section 61f-61k, Title 5, United States Code), should be made on standard Form No. 1055-Revised. Such claims include claims for payments due deceased contractors for articles furnished or services performed, and claims for payments due deceased importers or owners of merchandise on account of refunds of excessive duties, or taxes, or for payment of drawback, etc. Claims for payment of Government checks drawn on the Treasurer of the United States or other authorized Government depositary to the order of such public creditors, which cannot be paid because of the death of the payee, should be stated on standard Form 1055-Revised. Information should be furnished regarding the disposition of these checks in case they are not in possession of the claimant, otherwise they should accompany the claim.

(b) No form is prescribed for use of a guardian or committee of an estate of an incompetent in making claim for sums due from the United States. Such guardian or committee may submit in letter form, over his address and signature, an application for amounts due an estate of an incompetent, setting forth the incompetent's connection with the United States Customs Service. This application should be supported by a short certificate of the court showing the appointment and qualification of the claimant as guardian or committee. In case the total amount due the estate of the incompetent is small, and no guardian or committee of the estate has been or will be appointed, the application may be submitted by the person or persons having care or custody of the incompetent, or by close relatives who will hold any amount found due for the use and benefit of the incompetent. Applications for recurring payments need not be accompanied by an additional certificate of the court, but should be supported by a statement that the appointment is still in full force and effect. All Government checks drawn on the Treasurer of the United States or other authorized Government depository to the order of individuals which cannot be paid because of incompetency of the payee should accompany the claim, otherwise an explanation should be given as to the disposition of the check.

(c) Claims for payments due deceased or incompetent contractors should be submitted to the Customs field officer at whose order the articles were furnished or services performed. Claims for refunds of excessive duties, or taxes, or for payment of drawback and other similar claims due deceased or incompetent public creditors shall be submitted to the port director. The Customs field officer may grant necessary assistance to claimants to insure proper execution of standard Form 1055-Revised in the case of deceased public creditors, and in the case of incompetent public creditors to insure submission of the application in proper form. The port director shall settle the claim unless there is a doubtful question of fact or law, in which case the claim shall be forwarded to the Accounting Services Division, Accounts Receivable Group, Indianapolis, Indiana, with originals or certified copies of any necessary documents and with an appropriate report and recommendation.
