
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Withdrawal of Supplies and Equipment for Vessels
###### ยง 10.64 Crediting or cancellation of bonds.

(a) Except as stated below, a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter may be credited or canceled in respect of such articles upon the vessel's departure from the port of lading in a class of trade or business entitling the articles to exemption from duty and tax under the statute. The withdrawer shall cause the merchandise to be delivered to the lading vessel, and shall provide such evidence of lading as required by the port director within 30 days after lading, except as provided in this section. If the vessel is not operated by the United States and proceeds in ballast from the port where the articles are laden to another port to lade passengers or cargo for carriage in a class of trade specified in section 309, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the bond may be credited or canceled upon the filing with the director of the port of withdrawal within 3 months after the date of withdrawal of a proper declaration as prescribed below. The declaration shall be executed by one of the following who has knowledge of the facts:

(1) The operations manager or port captain for the vessel on which the articles are laden but not a representative of the supplier.

(2) The master or other officer of the vessel on which the articles are laden. The declaration shall be in substantially the following form:

(b) A declaration as to the intended business or trade of a vessel may, in the discretion of the port director, be accepted in lieu of a declaration prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section when the amount of duty or tax, or both, involved in a single lading is less than $100.
