
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Salt For Curing Fish
###### ยง 10.80 Remission of duty; withdrawal; bond.

Imported salt in bond may be used in curing fish taken by vessels licensed to engage in the fisheries, and in curing fish in the shores of the navigable waters of the U.S., whether such fish are taken by licensed or unlicensed vessels, and upon proof that the sale has been used for either of such purposes, the duties on the same shall be remitted. (Section 313(e), Tariff Act of 1930, 19 U.S.C. 1313(e)). Imported salt entered for warehouse may be withdrawn under bond for use in curing fish. Upon proof that the salt has been so used, the duties thereon shall be remitted. In no case shall the quantity of salt withdrawn exceed the reasonable requirements of the case. Withdrawal shall be made on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent. Each withdrawal shall contain the statement prescribed for withdrawals in ยง 144.32 of this chapter. When the withdrawal is made by a person other than the importer of record, a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in ยง 113.62 of this chapter for the production of proof of proper use shall be filed. Upon acceptance of the bond, a withdrawal permit shall be issued on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent.
