
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 102 - RULES OF ORIGIN
#### Subpart B - Rules of Origin
##### ยง 102.23 Origin and Manufacturer Identification.
###### Textile or apparel product manufacturer identification.

(a)All commercial importations of textile or apparel products must identify on CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, (Entry/Immediate Delivery) and CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, (Entry Summary), and in all electronic data transmissions that require identification of the manufacturer, the manufacturer of such products through a manufacturer identification code (MID) constructed from the name and address of the entity performing the origin-conferring operations pursuant to ยง 102.21 or ยง 102.22 of this part, as applicable. The code must be accurately constructed using the methodology set forth in the appendix to this part, including the use of the two-letter International Organization for Standardization (ISO) code for the country of origin of such products. When a single entry is filed for products of more than one manufacturer, the products of each manufacturer must be separately identified. Importers must be able to demonstrate to CBP their use of reasonable care in determining the manufacturer. If an entry filed for such merchandise fails to include the MID properly constructed from the name and address of the manufacturer, the Center director may reject the entry or take other appropriate action. For purposes of this paragraph, "textile or apparel products" means goods classifiable in Section XI, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), and goods classifiable in any 10-digit HTSUS number outside of Section XI with a three-digit textile category number assigned to the specific subheading.
