
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 102 - RULES OF ORIGIN
#### § 102.0 Scope.

With the exception of §§ 102.21 through 102.25, this part sets forth rules for determining the country of origin of imported goods for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 of Annex 311 of the North American Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA"). Under NAFTA, these specific purposes are: country of origin marking; determining the rate of duty and staging category applicable to originating textile and apparel products as set out in Section 2 (Tariff Elimination) of Annex 300-B (Textile and Apparel Goods); and determining the rate of duty and staging category applicable to an originating good as set out in Annex 302.2 (Tariff Elimination). The rules set forth in §§ 102.1 through 102.18 and 102.20 also determine the country of origin for marking purposes of imported goods under the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA). The rules set forth in §§ 102.1 through 102.21 of this part will also apply for purposes of determining whether an imported good is a new or different article of commerce under § 10.769 of the United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement regulations and § 10.809 of the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement regulations. The rules for determining the country of origin of textile and apparel products set forth in § 102.21 apply for the foregoing purposes and for the other purposes stated in that section. Section 102.22 sets forth rules for determining whether textile and apparel products are considered products of Israel for purposes of the customs laws and the administration of quantitative limitations. Sections 102.23 through 102.25 set forth certain procedural requirements relating to the importation of textile and apparel products.
