
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Automotive Products
###### § 10.84 Automotive vehicles and articles for use as original equipment in the manufacture of automotive vehicles.

(a)(1) Certain motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment are eligible for duty-free entry as proclaimed by the President under the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965. The articles designated for such duty-free treatment are defined in General Note 3(c)(iii), HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202). Specifically, such articles are those designated [as "Free (B)"] in the "Special" subcolumn in Chapter 87, HTSUS, and must qualify as "Canadian articles" as defined in General Note 3(c)(iii)(A)(1), HTSUS. To claim exemption from duty under the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965, an importer must establish, to the satisfaction of the appropriate Customs officer, that the article in question qualifies as a "Canadian article" for purposes of General Note 3(c)(iii)A)(1), HTSUS. The Customs officer may accept as satisfactory evidence a certificate executed by the exporter as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, subject to any verification he may deem necessary. Alternatively, the Customs officer may determine that under the circumstances of the importation a certificate is unnecessary.

(2) Under the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement and implementing legislation (Pub. L. 100-449, 102 Stat. 1851) a manufacturer of motor vehicles may elect to average, over its 12-month financial year, its calculation of the value-content requirement for vehicles in establishing its eligibility for tariff preference. Requirements for averaging are set forth in §§ 10.310 and 10.311.

(b)(1) When all materials used at any stage in the production of the imported article are wholly obtained or produced in Canada or the United States, or both, a certificate, or its electronic equivalent, in the following form may be accepted as evidence that the commodity is a "Canadian article":

(2) When any material used at any stage in the production of an imported article or any of its components is not wholly obtained or produced in Canada or the United States, or both, a certificate, or its electronic equivalent, in the following form may be accepted as evidence that the commodity is nevertheless a "Canadian article":

(3) If such Customs officer is satisfied that the revenue will be protected adequately thereby, he may accept in lieu of the certificate specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section a certificate, or its electronic equivalent, in the following form when the merchandise covered thereby has been produced with third country material but is an originating good under a specific rule of origin for the merchandise:

(4) The certificates described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, or their electronic equivalents, shall not be accepted if the statements therein make it evident that the importation is not a "Canadian article" within the meaning of General Note 3(c), HTSUS.

(5) If more than one kind of article is covered by a certificate provided for in paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, the information required by the certificate shall be shown with respect to each kind. When more than one kind of material, other than originating material, is used in the production of an article covered by such a certificate, the certificate shall state the number of units, a description sufficient for tariff classification purposes, the price paid, and, if not included in the price paid, the costs incurred in transporting the materials to the location of the producer and duties, taxes and brokerage fees paid in Canada and/or the United States on the material, per unit of each kind of materials.

(6) A certificate conforming to paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section shall be accepted as evidence of the facts alleged therein only if:

(i) There is annexed thereto a copy of the commercial invoice or bill of lading, or the electronic equivalent, covering the articles or other documentary evidence which identifies the article to which the certificate pertains,

(ii) The certificate, or its electronic equivalent, is signed by the manufacturer or producer of the article to which it pertains, or by the person who exported the articles from Canada, and

(iii) It clearly appears that such copy or other documentary evidence was annexed to the certificate when it was signed.

(c) In lieu of the certification in paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, a manufacturer of motor vehicles who claims a preference under the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement and elects to average pursuant to § 10.310(a), shall be subject to the requirements of §§ 10.301 to 10.311 of this part.

(d) When an importer makes an entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of articles for use as "original motor-vehicle equipment" as that term is defined in General Note 3(c)(iii), HTSUS, he shall file in connection therewith his declaration that the articles are being imported for use as original equipment in the manufacture in the United States of the kinds of motor vehicles specified in the General Note and furnish the name and address of the motor vehicle manufacturer. A copy of the written order, contract, or letter of intent shall be attached to the importer's declaration except that if the Center director is satisfied that a copy of the written order, contract, or letter of intent will be made available by the importer or ultimate consignee for inspection by customs officials upon request during a period of 3 years from the date of such entry or withdrawal from warehouse, the production of such documents will not be required. Proof of use need not be furnished.

(e) If, after a Canadian article has been accorded the status of original motor-vehicle equipment, it is decided to divert the article from its intended use in the manufacture in the United States of motor vehicles, the importer or other person deciding to divert the article from such intended use shall give notice in writing of the decision to the CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically or where the offices of the importer are located and either make arrangements for its destruction or exportation under Customs supervision or pay duties in accordance with General Note 3(c)(iii)(B)(2), HTSUS. If such article is not destroyed or exported under Customs supervision or the duties paid, the article, or its value, shall be subject to forfeiture.
