
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 103 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart C - Other Information Subject to Restricted Access
##### ยง 103.31 Information on vessel manifests and summary statistical reports.
###### Confidential treatment,Inward manifest.

(d)-(1)An importer or consignee may request confidential treatment of its name and address contained in inward manifests, to include identifying marks and numbers. In addition, an importer or consignee may request confidential treatment of the name and address of the shipper or shippers to such importer or consignee by using the following procedure:

(i) An importer or consignee, or authorized employee, attorney or official of the importer or consignee, must submit a certification (as described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section) claiming confidential treatment of its name and address. The name and address of an importer or consignee includes marks and numbers which reveal the name and address of the importer or consignee. An importer or consignee may file a certification requesting confidentiality for all its shippers.

(ii) There is no prescribed format for a certification. However, the certification shall include the importer's or consignee's Internal Revenue Service Employer Number, if available. There is no requirement to provide sufficient facts to support the conclusion that the disclosure of the names and addresses would likely cause substantial harm to the competitive position of the importer or consignee.
