
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Prototypes
###### ยง 10.91 Prototypes used exclusively for product development and testing.
####### Proof (declaration) of actual use.

(ii)If it is believed the circumstances so warrant, the Center director may request the submission of proof of actual use, executed and dated by the importer. The title of the party executing the proof of actual use must be set forth. If proof of actual use is requested, the importer must provide it within three years after the date the article is entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption. Liquidation of the related entry may be extended until the requested proof or declaration of actual use is received or until the three-year period from the date of entry allowed for the receipt of such proof has expired. While requested proof of use must be given to CBP within three years of the date of entry, the prototype may continue to be used thereafter for the purposes enumerated in HTSUS subheading 9817.85.01. If requested proof of use is not timely received, the entry will be liquidated as dutiable under the tariff provision that would otherwise apply to the imported article. While there is no particular form for this declaration, it may either be submitted in writing, or electronically as authorized by CBP, and must include the following:

(A) A description of the use that is being and/or that has been made of the articles set forth in sufficient detail so as to enable the Center director to determine whether the articles have been entitled to entry as claimed;

(B) A statement that the articles have not and are not to be put to any other use after the articles have been entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption and prior to the completion of their use under HTSUS 9817.85.01 (also see paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section concerning the disposition(s) to which the articles may be put following their use under HTSUS subheading 9817.85.01); and
