
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 103 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart C - Other Information Subject to Restricted Access
##### ยง 103.31 Information on vessel manifests and summary statistical reports.
###### Requests and subscriptions.

(2)Requests for CD-ROMS must be in writing and submitted to: U.S. Customs and Border Protection, National Finance Center, Collections Section, P.O. Box 68907, Indianapolis, Indiana 46268, or 6026 Lakeside Blvd., Indianapolis, Indiana 46278. Requests must include a check to cover the cost of the CD-ROMS requested. Actual costs and other specific information should be ascertained by contacting the Collections Section at (317) 614-4514. Bills for subscriptions will be issued monthly, with the first month's fee due in advance. Requested CD-ROMS will be mailed from the CBP Technology Support Center, first class, on the next business day after compilation. Parties desiring another form of delivery will have to make their own arrangements and notify CBP in advance. Subscriptions may be canceled provided CBP receives written notice at least 10 days prior to the end of the month. The CBP Technology Support Center must be notified in writing within seven days of technical problems with CD-ROMS or non-receipt of CD-ROMS in order to receive a replacement or credit towards future tape purchases. Refunds will not be provided. Information regarding the technical specifications of the CD-ROMS, problem CD-ROMS or the non-receipt of CD-ROMS should be directed to CBP Technology Support Center at 1-800-927-8729.
