
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 111 - CUSTOMS BROKERS
#### Subpart B - Procedure To Obtain License or Permit
##### § 111.13 Examination for individual license.
###### Special examination.

(c)If a partnership, association, or corporation loses the required member or officer having an individual broker's license (see § 111.11(b) and (c)(2)) and its license would be revoked by operation of law under the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1641(b)(5) and § 111.45(a) before the next scheduled examination, CBP may authorize a special examination for a prospective applicant for an individual license who would serve as the required licensed member or officer. CBP may also authorize a special examination for an individual for purposes of continuing the business of a sole proprietorship broker. A special examination for an individual may also be authorized by CBP if a brokerage firm loses the individual broker who was exercising responsible supervision and control over the transaction of customs business before the next scheduled examination. A request for a special examination must be submitted to the Executive Assistant Commissioner, Office of Trade, in writing and must describe the circumstances giving rise to the need for the examination. If the request is granted, the Executive Assistant Commissioner, Office of Trade or his/her designee, will notify the prospective examinee of the exact time and place for the examination. If the individual attains a passing grade on the special examination, the application for the license may be submitted in accordance with § 111.12. The examinee will be responsible for all additional costs incurred by CBP in preparing and administering the special examination that exceed theexamination fee prescribed in § 111.96(a), and those additional costs must be reimbursed to CBP before the examination is given.
