
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Ethyl Alcohol
###### ยง 10.99 Importation of ethyl alcohol for nonbeverage purposes.

(a) If claim is made by an importer other than the United States or a governmental agency thereof for the classification of ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 percent volume or higher under subheading 2207.10.60, Harmonized Tariff Schedules of the United States, the importer or his agent shall file in connection with the entry a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, that the alcohol is to be used for nonbeverage purposes only and whether the alcohol is to be used for fuel purposes. Customs shall release the alcohol for transfer, under internal revenue bond, to a distilled spirits plant upon deposit of estimated duty, if any, and without the payment of the internal revenue tax upon receipt of a transfer record for bulk spirits. In addition, a package gauge record must be submitted to Customs if the alcohol is in packages, as specified in subpart I of part 251, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (BATF) Regulations (27 CFR part 251, subpart I). The transfer shall be accomplished in accordance with subpart L of part 251, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Regulations (27 CFR part 251, subpart L).

(b) An appropriate BATF permit shall be filed with Customs in connection with the withdrawal of ethyl alcohol from Customs custody by the United States or any governmental agency thereof for its own use for nonbeverage purposes. Such permit shall be filed before release under the entry without the deposit of estimated duties, if any, and internal revenue tax, or before release in accordance with the provisions of ยง 141.102(d) of this chapter. (See subpart M of part 251, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Regulations (27 CFR part 251, subpart M)).

(c) The procedures for the withdrawal free of tax on the entry of ethyl alcohol for nonbeverage purposes from the Virgin Islands are found in subpart O of part 250, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Regulations (27 CFR part 250, subpart O).
