
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 113 - CBP BONDS
#### Subpart G - CBP Bond Conditions
##### § 113.62 Basic importation and entry bond conditions.
###### Consequence of default.

(n)(1) If the principal defaults on agreements in this condition other than conditions in paragraphs (a), (g), (i), (j), (k)(2), (l), or (m) of this section the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default, or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.

(2) It is understood and agreed that whether the default involves merchandise is determined by CBP and that the amount to be collected under these conditions will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.

(3) If the principal defaults on agreements in this condition other than conditions (a) or (g) and the default does not involve merchandise, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.

(4) If the principal defaults on agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section only, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the unpaid duties, taxes and charges estimated to be due or $1,000, whichever is greater. A default on the condition set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section will be presumed if any monetary instrument authorized for the payment of estimated duties, taxes and charges by § 24.1(a) of this chapter is returned unpaid by a financial institution, or if a payment authorized under Automated Clearinghouse (see § 24.25 of this chapter) is not transmitted electronically to CBP in a timely manner. If the principal defaults on agreements in both of the conditions as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (b) of this section, the measure of liquidated damages assessed will be as provided in paragraph (n)(1) of this section for a default of the agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, the phrase "unpaid duties, taxes and charges" will include any appropriate ad valorem fees described in § 24.23 of this chapter, fees relating to dutiable mail described in § 24.22(f) of this chapter, and harbor maintenance fees described in § 24.24(e)(3) (i) and (ii) of this chapter.

(5) If the principal defaults on agreements in the condition set forth in paragraph (m) of this section only, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to $100 per thousand board feet of the imported lumber.
