
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 113 - CBP BONDS
#### Appendix B to Part 113 - Bond To Indemnify Complainant Under Section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as Amended

This appendix contains the bond to indemnify a complainant under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. The provisions contained in §§ 12.39(b)(2) and 113.74 of the CBP Regulations (19 CFR Chapter I) and § 210.50(d) of the U.S. International Trade Commission Regulations (19 CFR Chapter II) apply.

____________ as principal and ________ as surety, are held and bound to ____________, as the complainant in U.S. International Trade Commission case/investigation number ________, of unfair practices or methods of competition in import trade in violation of section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, in the sum of ________ dollars ($________), for payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, by these conditions.

Pursuant to the provisions of section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the principal and surety recognize that the Commission has, according to the conditions described in its order, excluded from, or authorized, entry into the United States of the following merchandise ________________________________________ under entry number ____________, dated ____________.

The principal and surety recognize that the Commission has excluded that merchandise from entry until its investigation is completed, or until its decision that there is a violation of section 337 becomes final.

The principal and surety recognize that certain merchandise excluded from entry by the Commission was, or may be, offered for entry into the United States while the Commission's prohibition is in effect.

The principal and surety recognize that the principal desires to obtain a release of that merchandise pending a final determination of the merchandise's admissibility into the United States, as provided under section 337, and, for that purpose, the principal and surety execute this stipulation:

If it is determined, as provided in section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, to exclude that merchandise from the United States, then, on notification from the CBP, the principal is obligated to export or destroy under CBP supervision the merchandise released under this stipulation within 30 days from the date of the CBP's notification.

The principal and surety, jointly and severally, agree that if the principal defaults on that obligation, the principal and surety shall pay to the complainant an amount equal to the face value of the bond as may be demanded by him/her under the applicable law and regulations.

Witness our hands and seals this ________ day of ____________ (month), ________ (year).
