
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 113 - CBP BONDS
#### Appendix D to Part 113 - Importer Security Filing Bond

This appendix contains the relevant terms and conditions for Importer Security Filing Bonds.

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that ______________________ of ____________________________, as principal having Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Identification Number ____________ and ________________, as surety are held and firmly bound unto the United States of America up to the sum of ____________ dollars ($____________) for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.

Whereas, the named principal (including the named principal's employees, agents and contractors) agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in 19 CFR part 149, including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation.

If the principal defaults on the conditions of this obligation, the principal and surety jointly and severally, agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation upon demand by CBP.

This single transaction bond secures the single transaction identified by Importer Security Filing transaction number ______________________ issued by CBP on ____________, 20____________.

This continuous bond is effective ____________, 20____________, and remains in force for one year beginning with the effective date and for each succeeding annual period, or until terminated. This bond constitutes a separate bond for each period in the amount listed above for liabilities that accrue in each period. The intention to terminate this bond must be conveyed within the period and manner prescribed in the CBP Regulations.

This bond is executed on ________________, 20____________.
