
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 115 - CARGO CONTAINER AND ROAD VEHICLE CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMS CONVENTIONS
#### Subpart D - Procedures for Approval of Containers After Manufacture
##### ยง 115.42 Approval plates.

(a) The owner or operator applicant shall, upon receipt of a certificate of approval from the Certifying Authority, affix an approval plate in the manner specified for containers approved by design type (see ยง 115.32).

(b) Although an entry is not required in the space provided for type identifiers on an approval plate for containers approved after manufacture, identification number and letters indicating that a series of containers comply with the same specifications may be placed in such space. This may be used to assist in the identification of a series of containers in which a common defect may be discovered subsequent to certification. In such case the approval number on the plate shall be altered by an addition to the second or third element of such number. The specific method of altering the approval number may be established by each Certifying Authority, for containers approved by it, and communicated to the U.S. Customs Service.

(c) Two possible methods of accomplishing this are:

(1) Placing an "X" in front of the numeric portion of the middle element of the approval number, e.g., USA/X123-IB/85.

(2) Placing a suffix at the end of the approval number, e.g, USA/123-AB/85-01.
