
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 122 - AIR COMMERCE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Private Aircraft
##### § 122.25 Exemption from special landing requirements.
###### Procedure following exemption.

(d)(1) If an aircraft subject to § 122.23 is granted an exemption from the landing requirements as provided in this section, the aircraft commander shall notify Customs at least 60 minutes before:

(i) Crossing into the U.S. over a point on the Pacific Coast north of 33 degrees north latitude; or

(ii) Crossing into the U.S. over a point of the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Coast north of 30 degrees north latitude; or

(iii) Crossing into the U.S. over the Southwestern land border (defined as the U.S.-Mexican border between Brownsville, Texas, and San Diego, California). Southwestern land border crossings must be made while flying in Federal Aviation Administration published airways.

(2) The notice shall be given to a designated airport specified in § 122.24. The notice may be furnished directly to Customs by telephone, radio or other means, or may be furnished through the Federal Aviation Administration to Customs. If notice is furnished pursuant to this paragraph, notice pursuant to §§ 122.23 and 122.24 is unnecessary.

(3) All overflights must be conducted pursuant to an instrument flight plan filed with the Federal Aviation Administration or equivalent foreign aviation authority prior to the commencement of the overflight.

(4) The owner or aircraft commander of an aircraft subject to § 122.23 granted an exemption from the landing requirements must:

(i) Notify Customs of a change of Federal Aviation Administration or other (foreign) registration number for the aircraft;

(ii) Notify Customs of the sale, theft, modification or destruction of the aircraft;

(iii) Notify Customs of changes of usual or anticipated pilots or crewmembers as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Every pilot and crewmember participating in an overflight must have prior Customs approval either through initial application and approval, or through a supplemental application submitted by the new pilot or crewmember and approved by Customs before commencement of the pilot's or crewmember's first overflight.

(iv) Request permission from Customs to conduct an overflight to an airport not listed in the initial overflight application as specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section. The request must be directed to the port director who approved the initial request for an overflight exemption.

(v) Retain copies of the initial request for an overflight exemption, all supplemental applications from pilots or crewmembers, and all requests for additional landing privileges as well as a copy of the letter from Customs approving each of these requests. The copies must be carried on board any aircraft during the conduct of an overflight.

(5) The notification specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section must be given to Customs within 5 working days of the change, sale, theft, modification, or destruction, or before a flight for which there is an exemption, whichever occurs earlier.
