
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 122 - AIR COMMERCE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart E - Aircraft Entry and Entry Documents; Electronic Manifest Requirements for Passengers, Crew Members, and Non-Crew Members Onboard Commercial Aircraft Arriving In, Continuing Within, and Overflying the United States
##### ยง 122.49a Electronic manifest requirement for passengers onboard commercial aircraft arriving in the United States.
###### Non-interactive batch transmission option.

(A)A carrier that chooses not to transmit required passenger manifests by means of a CBP-certified interactive electronic transmission system under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B), (C), or (D) of this section must make batch manifest transmissions in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) by means of a non-interactive electronic transmission system approved by CBP. The carrier may make a single, complete batch manifest transmission containing the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for all passengers checked in for the flight or two or more partial batch manifest transmissions, each containing the required data for the identified passengers and which together cover all passengers checked in for the flight. After receipt of the manifest information, the CBP system will perform an initial security vetting of the data and send to the carrier by a non-interactive transmission method a "not-cleared" instruction for passengers identified as requiring additional security analysis and a "selectee" instruction for passengers requiring secondary screening (e.g., additional examination of the person and/or his baggage) under applicable Transportation Security Administration (TSA) requirements. The carrier must designate as a "selectee" any passenger so identified during initial security vetting, in accordance with applicable TSA requirements. The carrier must not issue a boarding pass to, or load the baggage of, any passenger subject to a "not-cleared" instruction and must contact TSA to seek resolution of the "not-cleared" instruction by providing, if necessary, additional relevant information relative to the "not-cleared" passenger. TSA will notify the carrier if the "not-cleared" passenger is cleared for boarding or downgraded to "selectee" status based on the additional security analysis.
