
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### Civil Aircraft
###### ยง 10.183 Duty-free entry of civil aircraft, aircraft engines, ground flight simulators, parts, components, and subassemblies.
####### Documentation.

(e)Each entry summary claiming duty-free admission for imported merchandise in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section must be supported by documentation to verify the claim for duty-free admission, including the written order or contract and other evidence that the merchandise entered qualifies under General Note 6, HTSUS, as a civil aircraft, aircraft engine, or ground flight simulator, or their parts, components, and subassemblies. Evidence that the merchandise qualifies under the general note includes evidence of compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section concerning use of the merchandise and evidence of compliance with the airworthiness certification requirement of paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), or (a)(2)(iii) of this section, including, as appropriate in the circumstances, an FAA certification; approval of airworthiness by an airworthiness authority in the country of export and evidence that the FAA recognizes that approval as an acceptable substitute for an FAA certification; an application for a certification submitted to and accepted by the FAA; a type and production certificate issued by the FAA; and/or evidence that a type and production certificate holder will submit an application for certification or approval in the future pending completion of design or other technical requirements stipulated by the FAA and of estimates of quantities of parts, components, and subassemblies as are required to meet design and technical requirements stipulated by the FAA. This documentation need not be filed with the entry summary but must be maintained in accordance with the general note and with the recordkeeping provisions of part 163 of this chapter. Customs may request production of documentation at any time to verify the claim for duty-free admission. Failure to produce documentation sufficient to satisfy the Center director that the merchandise qualifies for duty-free admission will result in a denial of duty-free treatment and may result in such other measures permitted under the regulations as the Center director finds necessary to more closely monitor the importer's importations of merchandise claimed to be duty-free under this section. Proof of end use of the entered merchandise need not be maintained.
