
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 10.71 Purebred animals; bond for production of evidence; deposit of estimated duties; stipulation.

(a) The animal may be released from Customs custody upon the furnishing by the importer of a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter for the production within 6 months of (1) a certificate of pure breeding, or its electronic equivalent, issued by the Department of Agriculture, and (2) the declaration required by § 10.70(a) submitted in letter form if such declaration was not filed at the time of entry. The release of the animal from customs custody requires the presentation of the pedigree certificate and evidence of transfer of ownership in accordance with the regulations of the Department of Agriculture mentioned in § 10.70(b).

(b) Charges against the bond shall be canceled only upon the production of the required evidence or on payment of duties.

(c) In cases where the pedigree certificate and evidence of transfer of ownership have been presented in accordance with the regulations of the Department of Agriculture, the importer, if he so elects, may, in lieu of giving a bond, deposit estimated duties and file a stipulation with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically within 10 days after the date of entry to produce the declaration and certificate of pure breeding within 6 months from the date of entry, whereupon the liquidation of the entry shall be suspended. (See § 113.42 of this chapter.)

(d) If the pedigree certificate and evidence of transfer of ownership were not presented in accordance with such regulations of the Department of Agriculture, a deposit of estimated duties, in addition to the regular entry bond, shall be required.

(e) When a passenger arriving in the United States with one or more dogs or cats and with the required certificates of pedigree and transfers of ownership in his possession furnishes a properly executed declaration as required by § 10.70(a) along with an application to the Department of Agriculture on ANH Form 17-338 for a certificate of pure breeding, the entry of the animal(s) as duty-free under subheading 0106.00.50, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), may be made on the passenger's baggage declaration if the value of the animals does not exceed $500. In such case the entry shall be supported by a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter for the production within 6 months of a certificate of pure breeding. The bond shall be without surety or cash deposit unless the port director on the basis of information before him finds that a bond with surety or a cash deposit is necessary to protect the revenue.
