
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart B - Caribbean Basin Initiative
##### § 10.191 General.
###### Eligible articles.

(2)Except as provided herein, for purposes of § 10.191(a), the term "eligible articles" means any merchandise which is imported directly from a beneficiary country as provided in § 10.193 and which meets the country of origin criteria set forth in § 10.195 or in § 10.198b. The following merchandise shall not be considered eligible articles entitled to duty-free treatment under the CBI.

(i) Textile and apparel articles which were not eligible articles for purposes of the CBI on January 1, 1994, as the CBI was in effect on that date.

(ii) Footwear not designated on August 5, 1983, as eligible articles for the purpose of the Generalized System of Preferences under Title V, Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2461 through 2467).

(iii) Tuna, prepared or preserved in any manner, in airtight containers.

(iv) Petroleum, or any product derived from petroleum, provided for in headings 2709 and 2710, HTSUS.

(v) Watches and watch parts (including cases, bracelets and straps), of whatever type including, but not limited to, mechanical, quartz digital or quartz analog, if such watches or watch parts contain any material which is the product of any country with respect to which HTSUS column 2 rates of duty apply.

(vi) Articles to which reduced rates of duty apply under § 10.198a.

(vii) Sugars, sirups, and molasses, provided for in subheadings 1701.11.00 and 1701.12.00, HTSUS, to the extent that importation and duty-free treatment of such articles are limited by Additional U.S. Note 4, Chapter 17, HTSUS.

(viii) Articles subject to the provisions of the subheadings of Subchapter III, from the beginning through 9903.85.21, Chapter 99, HTSUS, to the extent that such provisions have not been modified or terminated by the President pursuant to section 213(e)(5) of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2703(e)(5)).

(ix) Merchandise for which duty-free treatment under the CBI is suspended or withdrawn by the President pursuant to sections 213 (c)(2), (e)(1), or (f)(3) of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2703 (c)(2), (e)(1), or (f)(3)).
