
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 123 - CBP RELATIONS WITH CANADA AND MEXICO
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 123.8 Permit or special license to unlade or lade a vessel or vehicle.
###### Permission to unlade or lade.

(a)Before any passenger or merchandise, including baggage, may be landed or discharged from any vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving from Canada or Mexico by any route, or from a vehicle, permission to unlade shall be obtained from a Customs officer. Permission to unlade during overtime hours, on a Sunday or holiday, or to lade during overtime hours on a Sunday or holiday merchandise requiring Customs supervision, shall be obtained from the port director. Permission to unlade or lade a truck will be denied for any cargo with respect to which advance electronic information has not been received as provided in § 123.92 or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable. In cases in which CBP does not receive complete cargo information in the time and manner and in the electronic format required by § 123.92 or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable, CBP may delay issuance of a permit or special license to unlade or lade a truck. Permission to unlade is not required for a vessel of less than 5 net tons arriving otherwise than by sea carrying no baggage or other merchandise. For permission to unlade or lade for vessels of 5 net tons or over, see § 4.30 of this chapter.
