
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 123 - CBP RELATIONS WITH CANADA AND MEXICO
#### Subpart C - Shipments in Transit Through Canada or Mexico
##### ยง 123.22 In-transit manifest.
###### Manifest forms to be used.

(c)The in-transit manifest forms to be used are:

(1) For trucks, railroad cars or other overland carriers transiting Mexico a manifest on Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented.

(2) For vessels of less than 5 net tons departing and arriving otherwise than by sea, a manifest on Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented. All other vessels are subject to the manifesting requirements contained in ยง 4.82 of this chapter.

(3) For rail cars transiting Canada, a manifest on Customs Form 7533-C (Canada A4-1/2) shall be presented. For trains which will remain intact while transiting Canadian territory, a consolidated train manifest containing all the information included in the individual car manifests and the train sheet required by ยง 123.23 may be used in lieu of individual car manifests. For a number of cars which will transit Canada as a group, a consolidated manifest may be used, but a train sheet shall also be presented.

(4) In all other cases where no in-transit manifest form is specified in this subpart, or in subpart E relating to truck shipments on the Canadian border, subpart F relating to commercial traveler's samples, and subpart G relating to baggage, Customs Form 7512-B or 7533-C shall be presented.
