
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 128 - EXPRESS CONSIGNMENTS
#### Subpart B - Administration
##### ยง 128.11 Express consignment carrier application process.
###### Application contents.

(b)The application for approval of an express consignment carrier or hub facility must include the following:

(1) A full description of the international cargo facilities, including blueprints, floor plans and facility location(s).

(2) A statement of the general character of the express consignment operations that includes, in the case of an express consignment carrier facility, a list of all carriers or operators that intend to use the facility.

(3) An estimate of volume of transactions by:

(i) Formal entries.

(ii) Informal entries.

(iii) Shipments not requiring entry (see ยง 128.23 of this part).

(4) An application processing fee, as set forth in ยง 128.13.

(5) A list of principal company officials or officers.

(6) A projected start-up date, and days and hours of operation.

(7) An agreement that the express consignment entity will:

(i) Ensure that all cargo will be processed in the CBP Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system, and associated applications including, but not limited to, Automated Broker Interface (ABI), Automated Manifest System (AMS), Cargo Selectivity, and Statement Processing.

(ii) Sign and implement a narcotics enforcement agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

(iii) Provide, without cost to the Government, adequate office space, equipment, furnishings, supplies and security as per CBP's specifications.

(iv) If the entity is an express consignment carrier facility, provide to Customs and Border Protection, Revenue Division/Attention: Reimbursables, 6650 Telecom Drive, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46278, at the beginning of each calendar quarter, a list of all carriers or operators currently using the facility and notify that office whenever a new carrier or operator begins to use the facility or whenever a carrier or operator ceases to use the facility.

(v) If the entity is a hub facility or an express consignment carrier, timely pay all applicable processing fees prescribed in ยง 24.23 of this chapter.
