
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 128 - EXPRESS CONSIGNMENTS
#### Subpart B - Administration
##### ยง 128.12 Application approval/denial and suspension of operating privileges.
###### Hearing.

(d)In the case of a proposed suspension or revocation, a hearing may be requested within 30 days after notification. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer appointed by the Commissioner of Customs or his designee within 30 days following the express consignment entity's request. The entity shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 days prior thereto. The express consignment entity may be represented by counsel at such hearing, and all evidence and testimony of witnesses in such proceedings, including substantiation of the allegations and the responses thereto shall be presented, with the right of cross-examination to both parties. A stenographic record of any such proceeding shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the express consignment entity. At the conclusion of the hearing, all papers and the stenographic record of the hearing shall promptly be transmitted to the Commissioner of Customs or his designee together with a recommendation for final action. The express consignment entity may submit in writing additional views or arguments to the Commissioner or his designee following a hearing on the basis of the stenographic record, within 10 days after delivery to it of a copy of such record. The Commissioner or his designee shall thereafter render the decision in writing, stating the reasons therefor. Such decision shall be served on the express consignment entity, and shall be considered the final administrative action.
