
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 141 - ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart B - Right To Make Entry and Declarations on Entry
##### ยง 141.11 Evidence of right to make entry for importations by common carrier.
###### Merchandise not released directly to carrier.

(a)Except where merchandise is released directly to the carrier in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, one of the following types of evidence of the right to make entry shall be filed in connection with the entry of merchandise imported by common carrier:

(1) A bill of lading or air waybill, presented by the holder thereof, properly endorsed when endorsement is required under the law. A nonnegotiable bill of lading, or air waybill, may not be endorsed by the named consignee to give someone else the right to make entry. If the person making entry intends to use the original bill of lading or air waybill to obtain a duplicate bill of lading, duplicate air waybill, or carrier's certificate from the carrier, the exchange shall be made before the entry is filed, and the duplicate bill of lading, duplicate air waybill, or carrier's certificate shall be used to make entry in accordance with paragraph (a) (3) or (4) of this section. For purposes of this part, the rights of the consignor relating to an air waybill as prescribed by the Warsaw Convention (49 Stat. 3017) shall be protected.

(2) An extract from a bill of lading or air waybill certified to be genuine by the carrier bringing the merchandise to the port of entry. Customs officers shall not certify extracts from bills of lading or air waybills.

(3) A certified duplicate bill of lading or air waybill, with the carrier's certificate being in substantially the following form:

(4) A carrier's certificate, which may be executed on the official entry form, or, in appropriate cases, by means of a rubber-stamped or typewritten combined carrier's certificate and release order with one signature on a copy of the bill of lading, airway bill, shipping receipt, or other comparable document. The rubber-stamped or typewritten certificate shall be in substantially the following form, which may be varied to include any of the qualifications on release shown in ยง 141.111(d):

(5) A blanket carrier's release order on an appropriately modified bill of lading or air waybill covering any or all shipments which will arrive at the port on the carrier's conveyance during the period specified in the release order.

(6) A shipping receipt or other document presented in lieu of a bill of lading or air waybill shall be accepted as authority for making entry only if it bears a carrier's certificate in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, or if entry is made by the actual consignee in person or in his name by a duly authorized agent.
