
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 141 - ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart D - Quantity of Merchandise To Be Included in an Entry
##### ยง 141.57 Single entry for split shipments.
###### Special permit prior to arrival of entire shipment.

(2)As provided in ยง 142.21(g) of this chapter, an importer of record may also file a special permit for immediate delivery after the arrival of the first portion of a split shipment at the port of entry (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section), but before the arrival of the entire shipment at such port, thus qualifying the split shipment for incremental release, under paragraph (e) of this section, as each portion of the shipment arrives at the port of entry (see paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section). In such case, a CF 3461 or CF 3461 ALT as appropriate, or electronic equivalent, must be filed with Customs. As each portion arrives at the port of entry, the importer of record must submit a copy of the CF 3461/CF 3461 ALT, or its electronic equivalent, adjusted to reflect the quantity of that particular portion relative to the quantity contained in the entire split shipment (see paragraph (b)(1) of this section); however, if both the carrier and the importer of record are automated, such adjustments may instead be made electronically to the CBP Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. In the event that an entry has been pre-filed with Customs (see ยง 142.2(b) of this chapter), notification to Customs by the importer of record that a single entry will be filed for shipments released incrementally will serve as a request that the pre-filed entry be converted to an application for a special permit for immediate delivery (see ยง 142.21(g) of this chapter). The special permit must indicate the total number of pieces in, as well as the total value of, the entire shipment as reflected on the invoice(s) covering the shipment. Customs may limit the release of each portion of the split shipment upon arrival at the port of entry, as permitted under this paragraph, due to the need to examine the merchandise in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
