
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 141 - ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart D - Quantity of Merchandise To Be Included in an Entry
##### ยง 141.58 Single entry for separately arriving portions of unassembled or disassembled entities.
###### Release.

(e)If an importer wishes to secure release of an entity under paragraph (d)(1) of this section after the entity's arrival, the importer must file with CBP a CBP Form 3461 or CBP Form 3461 ALT, as appropriate, or electronic equivalent. To secure the separate release upon arrival of each portion of a shipment under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the importer must file with CBP a CBP Form 3461 or CBP Form 3461 ALT, as appropriate, or electronic equivalent after arrival of the first portion. As each successive portion arrives, the importer must submit a copy of the originally submitted CBP Form 3461/CBP Form 3461 ALT, annotated to specifically identify that particular portion. The CBP Form 3461/CBP Form 3461 ALT must indicate the order of the arriving portion in relation to the entire shipment as reflected on the invoice (for example, third of six portions). If both the carrier and the importer are automated, such adjustments may be made electronically through the CBP Automated Commercial System (ACS). The release of each portion upon arrival as permitted under this paragraph may be restricted due to CBP's need to examine the merchandise in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. In addition, the importer of record must present to CBP either on paper or through an authorized electronic equivalent, specific and detailed information supplementing the CBP Form 3461 or 3461 ALT, relating to the merchandise on each conveyance which reflects exact information for that portion of the ordered entity (for example, detailed packing lists).
