
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 141 - ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart E - Presentation of Entry Papers
##### ยง 141.61 Completion of entry and entry summary documentation.
###### Responsibility.

(2)The person filing the form is responsible for providing the information required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If the information required by subparagraph General Statistical Note 1(a)(xiv)(xvii), HTSUS, cannot be obtained readily, the person filing the form must provide reasonable estimates of the required information. The acceptance of an estimate for a particular transaction does not relieve the person filing the form from obtaining the necessary information for similar future transactions. The Center director may require additional documentation to substantiate the statistical information required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The importer must give an appropriate bond for the production of the required documentation, as follows:

(i) Except for merchandise entered for warehouse, the documentation must be produced within 50 days after the entry summary (or the entry, if there is no entry summary) is required to be filed.

(ii) If merchandise is entered for warehouse, the documentation must be produced within 2 months after the date of withdrawal, except that if an invoice is part of the documentation, the invoice must be produced within 50 days after the entry summary for warehouse is required to be filed.
