
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 141 - ENTRY OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart E - Presentation of Entry Papers
##### ยง 141.61 Completion of entry and entry summary documentation.
###### Multiple invoices.

(2)(i) If the importer or his agent elects the first option specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the information required to be restated by paragraph (f)(1) of this section for a single invoice must be restated for each invoice. The required information must be shown on a worksheet attached to the form or placed across columns 30 and 31 on CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent.

(ii) If the importer or his agent elects the second option specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the information required to be restated by paragraph (f)(1) of this section for a single invoice must be restated for each invoice. The final amount in the summary computation must represent the aggregate of the entered values of all the merchandise on each of the multiple invoices. The required information must be shown on an attached worksheet.

(iii) The worksheet also must contain:

(A) A statistical reporting number restatement for the merchandise from each invoice subject to the same statistical reporting number from the same country of origin, and

(B) An aggregate total value which represents the entered value.

(iv) To permit the identification of the merchandise entered under each reporting number, each class or kind of merchandise, from one country reported under a single statistical reporting number must be coded identically on each invoice and on the worksheet.
