
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 142 - ENTRY PROCESS
#### Subpart D - Line Release
##### ยง 142.42 Application for Line Release processing.

In order to obtain approval for processing import transactions through Line Release, a broker or importer filing its own entries (entry filer) must submit an application to the port director, signed by the entry filer, in a format described as a Line Release Data Loading Sheet. The application must be accompanied by a representative sample of an actual commercial invoice for the products sought to be processed under Line Release. The Line Release Data Loading Sheet must contain the following information with each information element appearing on a separate line.

(a) Port where application is being made.

(b) Initiating Company Information: name, address, city, state, contact person, phone number of contact person, and signature.

(c) Listing of all ports in which the initiating company has filed a similar application for Line Release.

(d) Country of origin codes (ISO codes from Annex B of HTSUS) for the merchandise.

(e) Shipper or manufacturer information: Name, address, city, province/state, country, postal code, indication by noting "M" or "S" whether this information relates to a manufacturer (M) or a shipper (S), and manufacturer identification number of the shipper or manufacturer.

(f) Importer information (if importer is different than filer): Name, address, city, state and country, zip code, importer number, bond number, and surety code.

(g) Entry filer information: Name, importer number, filer code, bond number, and surety code.

(h) Product information: Product description, manifest unit of measure, HTSUS number described to sub-heading level for particular product or range of HTSUS numbers at sub-heading levels for multiple products for which Line Release is sought.

(i) Election of whether the Line Release transaction is to be considered an entry or an immediate delivery.
