
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 144 - WAREHOUSE AND REWAREHOUSE ENTRIES AND WITHDRAWALS
#### Subpart D - Withdrawals from Warehouse
##### ยง 144.37 Withdrawal for exportation.
###### Sales ticket content and handling.

(2)Sales ticket withdrawals must be made only under a blanket permit to withdrawal (see ยง 19.6(d) of this chapter) and the sales ticket will serve as the equivalent of the supplementary withdrawal. A sales ticket is an invoice of the proprietor's design which will include:

(i) Serial number and date of preparation of each ticket;

(ii) Warehouse entry number or specific identifier, if approved by the port director;

(iii) Quantity of goods sold;

(iv) Brief description of the articles including the size of bottles;

(v) The full name and address of the purchaser. However, the port director may waive the address requirement for all merchandise except for alcoholic beverages in quantities in excess of 4 liters and cigarettes in quantities in excess of 3 cartons. Also, the address requirement is not applicable with respect to purchasers at airport duty-free enterprises; and

(vi) A statement on the original copy (purchaser's copy) to the effect that goods purchased in a duty-free store will be subject to duty and/or tax with personal exemption if returned to the United States. At the time of purchase, the original sales ticket must be made out in the name of the purchaser and given to the purchaser. One copy of the sales ticket must be retained by the proprietor. This copy may be maintained electronically. A permit file copy will be attached to the parcel containing the purchased articles unless the proprietor has established and maintained an effective method to match the parcel containing the purchased articles with the purchaser. Additional copies may be retained by the proprietor.
