
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 144 - WAREHOUSE AND REWAREHOUSE ENTRIES AND WITHDRAWALS
#### Subpart E - Rewarehouse Entries
##### ยง 144.41 Entry for rewarehouse.
###### Combining separate shipments.

(c)(1) Separate shipments consigned to the same consignee and received under separate withdrawals for transportation may be combined into one rewarehouse entry if the warehouse withdrawals are from the same original warehouse entry.

(2) Shipments covered by multiple warehouse entries, and shipped from a single warehouse under separate withdrawals for transportation, via a single conveyance, may be combined into one rewarehouse entry if consigned to the same consignee and deposited into a single warehouse. With the exception of alcohol and tobacco products, this procedure shall not be allowed for merchandise which is in any way restricted (for example, quota/visa). The combined rewarehouse entry shall have attached either copies of each warehouse entry package which is being combined into the single rewarehouse entry or a summary with pertinent information, that is, the date of importation, commodity description, size, HTSUS and entry numbers, for all entries withdrawn for consolidation as one rewarehouse entry. Any combining of separate withdrawals into one rewarehouse entry shall result in the rewarehouse entry being assigned the import date of the oldest entry being combined into the rewarehouse entry.

(3) Combining of separate shipments shall be prohibited in all other circumstances.
