
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 145 - MAIL IMPORTATIONS
#### Appendix to Part 145
##### Definitions.

B.Under various international conventions and bilateral agreements, international mail falls within two main classes, Parcel Post and Postal Union mail.

Parcel Post is not permitted to contain correspondence but is to be used for the transmission of merchandise and is fully subject to Customs examination in the same manner as other merchandise shipments (e.g., luggage, cargo, containers, etc.). Postal Union mail is divided into "LC" mail (Lettres et Cartes) and "AO" mail (Aures Objets).

"LC mail consists of letters, packages paid at the letter rate of postage, post cards, and aerogrammes. The term "letter class mail" as used in the Customs Regulations and in this policy statement means "LC" mail as well as equivalent articles in "domestic" mail subject to Customs examination. Equivalent articles in "domestic" mail would include articles mailed at the letter rate, or equivalent class or category, in the APO/FPO military system or from a U.S. territory or possession outside the CTUS. Since the term "letter class mail" thus includes packages and bulky envelopes as long as they are mailed at the letter rate, or equivalent class or category, the restrictions relating to opening and reading of correspondence apply equally to such packages or bulky envelopes.

"AO" mail is to be treated in the same manner as Parcel Post mail since the Universal Postal Union Convention requires that they "be made up in such a manner that they may be easily examined" and generally are not permitted to "contain any document having the character of current and personal correspondence." Exceptions to the latter requirement exist for matter for the blind and certain correspondence between school children. Because of these exceptions, the prohibition against reading correspondence without a search warrant or authorization of the sender or addressee applies to correspondence of the blind and correspondence between school children contained in "AO" mail. "AO" mail can usually be identified by the following words: "Imprime" or "Printed Matter", "Cecogramme" or "Literature for the Blind", "Petit Paquet" or "Small Packet" or similar terms or their equivalents.
