
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 145 - MAIL IMPORTATIONS
#### Appendix to Part 145
##### Reasonable Cause to Suspect.

C.Determining whether there is "reasonable cause to suspect" that merchandise or contraband is contained in sealed letter class mail is ultimately a matter of judgment for each Customs official, based on all relevant facts and circumstances. This judgment should be exercised within the framework of the Customs regulation that sealed letter class mail which appears to contain only correspondence is not to be opened unless a search warrant or written authorization from either the sender or the addressee has been obtained in advance of the opening.

Past practice indicates that the following circumstances (which are illustrative and not exhaustive) provide "reasonable cause to suspect" and permit the opening of sealed letter class mail without a search warrant or authorization of the sender or addressee.

1. A detector dog has alerted to the presence of narcotics or explosives in a specific mail article.

2. X-ray of fluoroscope examination indicates the presence of merchandise or contraband.

3. The weight, shape, feel, or sound of the mail article or its contents may indicate that merchandise or contraband (e.g., a hard object which may be jewelry, a stack of paper which may be counterfeit money, or coins) could be in the mail article. Contents of a mail article which feel lumpy, powdery, or spongy may, for example, indicate the presence of narcotics.

4. Information from a source previously shown to be reliable indicates that an identifiable mail article contains merchandise or contraband.

5. The mail article is insured.

6. The mail article is a box, carton, or wrapper other than a thin envelope.

7. The sender or addressee of the mail article is known to be fictitious.

On the other hand, certain facts standing alone generally will not provide "reasonable cause to suspect" the presence of merchandise or contraband and therefore do not permit the opening of sealed letter class mail. For example, sealed letter class mail may not be opened merely because:

1. The mail article is registered.

2. The feel of a letter-size envelope suggests that it contains one or a limited number of photographs.

3. The mail article appears to be part of a mass mailing.

4. The mail article is from a particular country, whether or not a known source country of contraband.

5. A detector dog has alerted to the presence of narcotics or explosives somewhere within a tray of mail (the individual articles of mail must then be examined individually).

6. The sender of addressee of the mail article is known to have mailed or received contraband or merchandise in violation of law in the past.

7. The wrapper contains writing or typing similar to that previously found on articles of mail which contained contraband or merchandise in violation of law.

In case where any one of the above facts is present, additional evidence must exist which in conjunction with that fact provides reasonable cause to suspect the presence of merchandise or contraband.
