
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 146 - FOREIGN TRADE ZONES
#### Subpart F - Transfer of Merchandise From a Zone
##### ยง 146.71 Release and removal of merchandise from zone.
###### Retention or return of merchandise to zone for consumption.

(d)(1) The port director shall cancel any entry for consumption where: (i) The merchandise is not removed from the zone within the period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, or (ii) the merchandise was removed from the zone but did not enter the commerce of the U.S. in Customs territory and was subsequently readmitted to a zone in domestic status. If the port director has reason to believe any new entry would be cancelled under the provisions of this paragraph, he may reject the entry or demand a written stipulation, as a condition of entry acceptance, that the merchandise will not be returned to a zone in domestic status. Merchandise covered by an entry which has been cancelled under this paragraph shall be restored to its last foreign status.

(2) A component of merchandise which has been entered, but not physically removed from a zone, shall be restored to its last zone status, provided the port director determines that the component was included in the entry through clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence not amounting to an error in the construction of the law. Such an error, including that in appraisement of any entry or liquidation due to the above circumstances, may be corrected pursuant to section 520(c)(1), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1520(c)(1)), in accordance with the procedures described in part 173 of this chapter. If the port director decides there has been no error, mistake, or inadvertence, or that the information was not timely provided, the component will be considered as an overage and subject to the provisions of ยง 146.53(d).

(3) When merchandise which has been entered for consumption is subsequently returned to a zone for a reason other than that specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, it shall be admitted in domestic status.
