
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 146 - FOREIGN TRADE ZONES
#### Subpart H - Petroleum Refineries in Foreign-Trade Subzones
##### ยง 146.95 Methods of attribution.
###### Attribution to product or feedstock not listed in T.D. 66-16.

(3)(i) For purposes of attribution, where a final product or a feedstock is not listed in T.D. 66-16, the operator must submit a proposed attribution schedule, supported by a technical memorandum, to the appropriate port director. The port director shall refer the request to the Director, Office of Regulatory Audit ("ORA"), who will verify the refiner's records and will coordinate with the Director, Office of Laboratories and Scientific Services ("OLSS"). The Director, ORA, shall either approve or deny the request. If the request is approved, the Director, ORA, shall publish a modification of T.D. 66-16. If an operator elects to show attribution on a producibility basis, but fails to keep records on that basis, the operator shall use its actual operating records to determine attribution and any necessary relative value calculation upon the Customs Service demand and subject to verification.

(ii) An operator may attribute a final product to a feedstock in excess of the amount allowed under T.D. 66-16, when authorized by Customs, without losing the ability to attribute under T.D. 66-16 for all other feedstock-final product combinations. The operator must use its actual production records for the requested feedstock-final product combination. The operator must agree in writing that it will not, and it will not enable any other person, to file a drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313 inconsistent with those actual production records for that feedstock-final product combination. The operator shall file its request in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The Director, ORA, and the Director, OLSS, must determine whether T.D. 66-16 needs to be modified and shall publish in the Customs Bulletin each approval granted under this paragraph and request public comments with each such approval.
