
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 146 - FOREIGN TRADE ZONES
#### Appendix to Part 146 - Guidelines for Determining Producibility and Relative Values for Oil Refinery Zones

Where an example is set out in this appendix, the example is for purposes of illustrating the application of a provision, and where there is any inconsistency between the example and the provision, the provision prevails to the extent of the inconsistency. Alternative formats are also acceptable so long as they are consistent with the provisions of this part.

Volume losses and gains accounted for by weight.

Receipt into the refinery subzone during a 30-day month:

Removal from the refinery subzone for exportation of 50,000 pounds of aviation gasoline.

The period of manufacture for the aviation gasoline is Day 1 to Day 10. The refiner must first attribute the designated source of the aviation gasoline.

In order to maximize the duty benefit conferred by the zone operation, the refiner chooses to attribute the exported aviation gasoline to the privileged foreign status crude oil. Under the tables for potential production (T.V. 66-16), class II crude has a 30% potential, and class III has a 40% potential. The maximum aviation gasoline producible from the class II crude oil is 15,000 pounds (50,000 x .30). The maximum aviation gasoline producible from the privileged foreign status class III crude oil is 20,000 pounds (50,000 x .40). The domestic class III crude would also make 20,000 pounds of aviation gasoline.

The refiner could attribute 15,000 pounds of the privileged foreign class II crude oil, 20,000 pounds of the privileged foreign class III crude oil, and 15,000 pounds of the domestic class III crude oil as the source of the 50,000 pounds of the aviation gasoline that was exported; 35,000 pounds of class II crude oil would be available for further production for other than aviation gasoline, 30,000 pounds of privileged foreign class III crude oil would be available for further production for other than aviation gasoline, and 35,000 pounds of domestic status class III crude oil would be available for further production, of which up to 5,000 pounds could be attributed to aviation gasoline.

Receipt in the refinery subzone:

Removal from the refinery subzone:

To the extent that the crude oils that entered production on Day 1 are attributed as the designated sources for the products removed on Day 30, the period of manufacture is Day 1 to Day 30. If the refiner chooses to attribute the crude oils that were admitted on Day 21 as the designated sources of the products removed on Day 30 using the production standards published in T.D. 66-16, the manufacturing period is Day 21 to Day 30. This choice will be important if a relative value calculation on the privileged foreign status crude oil is required, because the law requires the value used for computing the relative value to be the average per unit value of each product for the manufacturing period. Relative value must be calculated if a source feedstock is separated into two or more products that are removed from the subzone refinery. If the average per unit value for each product differs between the manufacturing period from Day 1 to Day 30 and the manufacturing period from Day 21 to Day 30, the correct period must be used in the calculation.

In order to minimize duty liability, the refiner would try to attribute the production of the exported kerosene and the sale of the jet fuel to the US Air Force to the privileged foreign crude oils. For the same reason, the refiner would try to attribute the removed motor gasoline and the aviation gasoline for the commuter airline to the domestic crude oil.

Accordingly, the refiner chooses to attribute up to 5,000 pounds of the domestic status class III crude as the source of the 10,000 pounds of aviation gasoline removed from the subzone refinery for the commuter airline. Since no other aviation gasoline could have been produced from the crude oils that were admitted into the refinery subzone Day 1, the refiner must attribute the remainder to the crude oils that entered production on Day 21. Again, using the production standards from T.D. 66-16, the class I crude could produce aviation gasoline in an amount up to 10,000 pounds (50,000 x .20). Likewise, the class IV crude oil could produce aviation gasoline in an amount up to 8,500 pounds (50,000 x .17).

The refiner selects use of the class I crude as the source of the aviation gasoline. The refiner could attribute up to 27,300 pounds (35,000-5,000 x .91) of the domestic class III crude oil as the source of the motor gasoline. This would leave 2,700 pounds of domestic class III crude available for further production for other than aviation gasoline or motor gasoline. The remaining motor gasoline removed (also 2,700 pounds) must be attributed to a privileged foreign crude oil. The refiner selects the privileged foreign class II crude oil that entered production on Day 1 as the source for the remaining 2,700 pounds of motor gasoline.

This would leave 32,300 pounds of privileged foreign class II crude oil available for further production, of which no more than 27,400 pounds could be designated as the source of motor gasoline. The refiner attributes the jet fuel that is removed from the refinery subzone for the US Air Force for use in military aircraft to the privileged foreign class II crude oil. The refiner could attribute up to 20,995 pounds of jet fuel from that class II crude oil (32,300 x .65). Designating that class II crude oil as the source of the 10,000 pounds of jet fuel leaves 22,300 pounds of privileged foreign class II crude oil available for further production, of which up to 10,995 pounds could be attributed as the source of the jet fuel. Because the motor gasoline and the jet fuel, under the foregoing attribution, would be considered to have been separated from the privileged foreign class II crude oil, a relative value calculation would be required.

The jet fuel is eligible for removal from the subzone free of duty by virtue of 19 U.S.C. 1309(a)(1)(A). The refiner could attribute the privileged foreign class II crude oil as being the source of the 10,000 pounds of jet fuel (22,300 x .65). The refiner chooses to attribute the privileged foreign class III crude oil as the source of the jet fuel. The refiner could attribute to that class III crude oil up to 15,000 pounds of kerosene (30,000 x .50).

Transfer, into the Refinery Subzone, from one or more storage tanks into process 150 barrels of Privileged Foreign (PF) Class II crude oil, equivalent to 50,000 pounds.

Removal from the refinery subzone 119 barrels of residual oils to customs territory, equivalent to 40,000 pounds.

Since the operator uses the FIFO method of attribution, as the product is removed from the subzone, or consumed or lost within the subzone, attribution must be to the oldest feedstock available for attribution. Accordingly, the 40,000 pounds of residual oils will be attributed to 40,000 pounds of the PF Class II crude oil from Day 1-5.

Transfer, into the refinery subzone, from one or more storage tanks 4 barrels of domestic motor gasoline blend stock, equivalent to 1,000 pounds to motor gasoline blending tank.

Transfer, into the refinery subzone, from one or more storage tanks into process 320 barrels of Domestic Class III crude oil, equivalent to 100,000 pounds.

Removal from the refinery subzone 14 barrels of asphalt to customs territory, equivalent to 5,000 pounds.

The 5,000 pounds of asphalt will be attributed to 5,000 pounds of PF Class II crude oil from Day 1-5.

Removal from the refinery subzone, 324 barrels of motor gasoline to customs territory, equivalent to 81,000 pounds.

The 81,000 pounds of motor gasoline will be attributed to 1,000 pounds of domestic motor gasoline blend stock from Day 10, to the remaining 5,000 pounds of PF Class II crude oil from Day 1-5 and 75,000 pounds of domestic Class III crude oil from Day 6-15.

Transfer, into the refinery subzone, from one or more storage tanks into process 169 barrels of Privileged Foreign (PF) Class III crude oil, equivalent to 50,000 pounds.

Removal from the refinery subzone, 214 barrels of jet fuel for exportation, equivalent to 60,000 pounds.

The 60,000 pounds of jet fuel will be attributed to the remaining 25,000 pounds of domestic Class III crude oil from Day 6-15 and 35,000 pounds of PF Class III crude oil from Day 16-20.

Transfer, into the refinery subzone from one or more storage tanks into process, 143 barrels of domestic Class I crude oil, equivalent to 50,000 pounds.

It is determined that during the manufacturing period just ended, that 34 barrels of fuel, equivalent to 10,000 pounds was consumed, and 5 barrels of oil, equivalent to 1,500 pounds was lost in the refining production process within the refinery subzone.

The 10,000 pounds of fuel consumed will be attributed 10,000 pounds of PF Class III crude oil from Day 16-20. The 1,500 pounds of oil lost in the refining production process will be attributed to 1,500 pounds of PF Class III crude oil from Day 16-20. The remaining 3,500 pounds of PF Class III crude oil from Day 16-20 will be the first to be attributed during the next manufacturing period.

Because privileged foreign feedstocks transferred into process during Day 1-5 and Day 16-20 have two or more products attributed to them, each feedstock will require a relative value calculation.

Relative value calculation for UIN Day 1-5, 50,000 pounds, equivalent to 150 barrels.

On the weekly estimated production CF 3461, the refiner is required to provide a pro forma invoice or schedule showing the number of units of each type of merchandise to be removed during the week and their zone and dutiable values. For example, on CF 3461 the refiner estimates the following shipments and relative values for the next week and files this on the preceding Friday.

For example, on the CF 3461 the refiner estimates the following shipments and relative values for the next week and files this on the preceding Friday.
