
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 148 - PERSONAL DECLARATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
#### Subpart I - Personnel of Foreign Governments and International Organizations and Special Treatment for Returning Individuals
##### ยง 148.82 Diplomatic, consular, and other privileged personnel.
###### Exemption for baggage and effects and admission without entry.

(b)The baggage and effects of the following representatives of foreign governments shall be admitted free of duty without the filing of an entry, upon the request of the Department of State and appropriate instructions from the United States Customs Service in each instance:

(1) Ambassadors, ministers, charg&#xE9;s d'affaires, secretaries, counselors, attach&#xE9;s of embassies and legations, and other members of the diplomatic staffs of such missions accredited to the United States or en route to or from other countries to which assigned, as well as recognized consular officers, and the immediate families, suites, and servants of all the above under subheading 9806.00.05, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202).

(2) Members of the administrative and technical staffs of diplomatic missions and members of their families forming part of their households, all of whom are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States under subheading 9806.00.05, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202). Unless more extensive privileges are provided in treaties or special agreements between the United States and the foreign country concerned, this privilege is limited to baggage and effects imported at the time of first installation.

(3) Consular employees who are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States. Unless more extensive privileges are provided in treaties or special agreements between the United States and the foreign country concerned, this privilege is limited to articles imported at the time of first installation.

(4) Other high officials of foreign governments and such distinguished foreign visitors as may be designated by the Department of State, and their immediate families under subheading 9806.00.25, HTSUS.

(5) Foreign government personnel entitled to privileges under statutes or treaties under subheading 9806.00.30, HTSUS.

(6) Diplomatic couriers, limited to accompanying baggage and effects.
