
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 151 - EXAMINATION, SAMPLING, AND TESTING OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 151.12 Accreditation of commercial laboratories.
###### What are the commodity groups for which accreditation may be sought?

(d)(1) Commercial laboratories may apply for accreditation to perform tests for any of the commodity groups listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Applicable test procedures are listed in Commodity Group Brochures and the U.S. Customs Laboratory Methods Manual. Application may be made for accreditation in more than one commodity group. At the discretion of the Executive Director accreditation may be granted for subgroups of tests within a commodity group or for commodity groups not specifically enumerated. Once accredited, a Customs-accredited laboratory may apply at any time to expand its accreditation, to add new testing sites, or increase the number of commodity groups or subgroups accredited.

(2) The commodity groups for which accreditation may be sought without special permission from the Executive Director are:

(i) Dairy and Chocolate Products entered under Chapters 4, 18, and 21 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS);

(ii) Food and Food Products entered under Chapters 7-12, 15, 16, and 19-21, HTSUS;

(iii) Botanical Identification-materials and products entered under Chapters 14 and 44-46, HTSUS;

(iv) Sugar, Sugar Syrups, and Confectionery products entered under Chapter 17, HTSUS;

(v) Spirituous Beverages entered under Chapter 22, HTSUS;

(vi) Building Stone, Ceramics, Glassware, and Other Mineral Substances entered under Chapters 25 and 68-70, HTSUS;

(vii) Inorganic Materials, including Inorganic Compounds and Ores, entered under Chapters 26, 28, 31, and 36-38, HTSUS;

(viii) Petroleum and Petroleum Products entered under Chapters 27 and 29, HTSUS;

(ix) Organic Materials, including Intermediates and Pharmaceuticals, entered under Chapters 29, 30, 34, 35, and 38, HTSUS;

(x) Rubber, Plastics, Polymers, Pigments and Paints entered under Chapters 32, 39, and 40, HTSUS;

(xi) Essential Oils and Perfumes entered under Chapter 33, HTSUS;

(xii) Leather and Articles of Leather entered under Chapters 41 and 42, HTSUS;

(xiii) Paper and Paper Products entered under Chapters 47-49, HTSUS;

(xiv) Textiles and Related Products, including footwear and hats, entered under Chapters 50-67, HTSUS; and,

(xv) Metals and Alloys entered under Chapters 72-83, HTSUS.
