
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 152 - CLASSIFICATION AND APPRAISEMENT OF MERCHANDISE
#### Subpart E - Valuation of Merchandise
##### ยง 152.103 Transaction value.
###### Test values.

(2)(i) The importer or the buyer may demonstrate that the transaction value in a related person transaction is acceptable by showing that the value "closely approximates" any one of the test values provided in ยง 152.103(j)(2)(i). The factors that will be examined to determine if the transaction value closely approximates a test value include:

(A) The nature of the imported merchandise and the industry,

(B) The season in which the merchandise is imported,

(C) Whether the difference in value is commercially significant, and

(D) Whether the difference in value is attributable to internal transport costs in the country of exportation.

(ii) Because these factors may vary, Customs will not be able to apply a uniform standard, such as a fixed percentage, in each case. A small difference in value in a case involving one type of imported merchandise may be unacceptable, although a large difference in a case involving another type may be acceptable, in determining if the transaction value closely approximates any of the test values. Customs will be consistent in determining if one value "closely approximates" another value. The same approach will be taken if Customs considers a transaction value that is higher than any of the enumerated test values as will be taken if the transaction value is lower than any of the test values.

(iii) If one of the test values provided in ยง 152.103(j)(2)(i) has been found to be appropriate, the Center director shall not seek to determine if the relationship between the buyer and seller influenced the price. If the Center director already has sufficient information to be satisfied, without further detailed inquiries, that one of the test values is appropriate, he shall not require the importer to demonstrate that the test value is appropriate.
