
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 159 - LIQUIDATION OF DUTIES
#### Subpart F - Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset
##### ยง 159.63 Certifications.
###### Review and correction of certification.

(c)A certification that is submitted in response to a notice of distribution and received within 60 days after the date of publication of the notice in themay be reviewed before acceptance to ensure that all informational requirements are complied with and that any amounts set forth in the certification for current and prior qualifying expenditures, including the amount claimed for distribution, appear to be correct (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section). A certification that is found to be materially incorrect or incomplete will be returned to the domestic producer within 15 days after the close of the 60-day filing period. Within 10 days of the date that Customs returns a certification as being materially incorrect or incomplete, Customs must receive a corrected certification from the affected domestic producer. Customs will make every effort to assist companies to perfect their certifications and will not return claims for minor errors or omissions. However, it remains the sole responsibility of the domestic producer to ensure that the certification is correct, complete and satisfactory so as to demonstrate the entitlement of the domestic producer to the distribution requested. Failure to ensure that the certification is correct, complete and satisfactory as provided in this paragraph will result in the domestic producer not receiving a distribution.
