
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Arrival and Entry of Vessels
##### ยง 4.9 Formal entry.
###### Delivery of foreign vessel document.

(c)The master of any foreign vessel will exhibit the vessel's document to the port director on or before the entry of the vessel. After the net tonnage has been noted, the document may be delivered to the consul of the nation to which such vessel belongs, in which event the vessel master will certify to the port director the fact of such delivery (see section 434, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1434), as applied through section 438, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1438)). If not delivered to the consul, the document will be deposited in the customhouse. Whether delivered to the foreign consul or deposited at the customhouse, the document will not be delivered to the master of the foreign vessel until clearance is granted under ยง 4.61. It will not be lawful for any foreign consul to deliver to the master of any foreign vessel the register, or document in lieu thereof, deposited with him in accordance with the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1434 until such master will produce to him a clearance in due form from the director of the port where such vessel has been entered. Any consul violating the provisions of this section is liable to a fine of not more than $5,000 (section 438, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended; 19 U.S.C. 1438).
