
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart F - Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act
##### Apparel and Other Textile Articles Under the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act
###### § 10.247 Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
####### Importer requirements.

(b)In order to make a claim for preferential treatment under § 10.245, the importer:

(1) Must have records that explain how the importer came to the conclusion that the apparel or other textile article qualifies for preferential treatment. Those records must include documents that support a claim that the article in question qualifies for preferential treatment because it is specifically described in one of the provisions under § 10.243(a). If the importer is claiming that the article incorporates fabric or yarn that was wholly formed in the United States or in an ATPDEA beneficiary country, the importer must have records that identify the producer of the fabric or yarn. A properly completed Certificate of Origin in the form set forth in § 10.244(b) is a record that would serve these purposes;

(2) Must establish and implement internal controls which provide for the periodic review of the accuracy of the Certificates of Origin or other records referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(3) Must have shipping papers that show how the article moved from the ATPDEA beneficiary country to the United States. If the imported article was shipped through a country other than an ATPDEA beneficiary country and the invoices and other documents from the ATPDEA beneficiary country do not show the United States as the final destination, the importer also must have documentation that demonstrates that the conditions set forth in § 10.243(d)(3)(i) through (iii) were met; and

(4) Must be prepared to explain, upon request from CBP, how the records and internal controls referred to in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section justify the importer's claim for preferential treatment.
