
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 162 - INSPECTION, SEARCH, AND SEIZURE
#### Subpart G - Special Procedures for Certain Violations
##### ยง 162.80 Liability for duties; liquidation of entries.

(a)(1) When an entry is the subject of an investigation for possible violation of section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592), or of a penalty action established under that section, the Center director, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may liquidate the entry and CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, may collect duties before the conclusion of the investigation or final disposition of the penalty action if the Center director determines that liquidation would be in the interest of the Government.

(2)(i) An entry not liquidated within 1 year from the date of entry or final withdrawal of all merchandise covered by a warehouse entry shall be deemed liquidated at the rate of duty, value, quantity, and amount of duties asserted at the time of entry by the importer, his consignee, or agent unless the time for liquidation is extended by the Center director because-

(A) Information needed by Customs for the proper appraisement or classification of the merchandise is not available.

(B) The importer, his consignee, or agent requests an extension and demonstrates good cause why the extention should be granted, or

(C) The 1-year liquidation period is suspended as required by statute or court order.

(ii) An entry not liquidated within 4 years from the date of entry or final withdrawal of all merchandise covered by a warehouse entry shall be deemed liquidated at the rate of duty, value, quantity, and amount of duties asserted at the time of entry by the importer, his consignee, or agent unless liquidation continues to be suspended by statute or court order. In that event, the entry shall be liquidated within 90 days after removal of the suspension.

(iii) The Center director promptly shall notify the importer or consignee concerned and any authorized agent and surety of the importer or consignee in writing of any extension or suspension of the liquidation period.

(b) When merchandise not covered by an entry is subject to section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592), a demand shall be made on the importer for payment of the duty estimated to be due on such merchandise.

(c) Any applicable internal revenue tax shall also be demanded unless the merchandise is to be, or has been, forfeited.
