
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 163 - RECORDKEEPING
#### ยง 163.1 Definitions.
##### Activities.

(2)The following are activities for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(i) Any importation, declaration or entry;

(ii) The transportation or storage of merchandise carried or held under bond into or from the customs territory of the United States;

(iii) The filing of a drawback claim;

(iv) The completion and signature of a NAFTA Certificate of Origin pursuant to ยง 181.11(b) of this chapter;

(v) The collection, or payment to Customs, of duties, fees and taxes; or

(vi) The completion and signature of a Chile FTA certification of origin and any other supporting documentation pursuant to the United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement.

(vii) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (SFTA), including a SFTA importer's supporting statement if previously required by the port director or Center director before January 19, 2017, or the Center director on or after January 19, 2017.

(viii) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Jordan Free Trade Agreement (US-JFTA), including a US-JFTA declaration.

(ix) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement (AFTA), including an AFTA importer's supporting statement.

(x) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement (MFTA), including a MFTA importer's declaration.

(xi) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR), including a CAFTA-DR importer's certification.

(xii) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement (BFTA), including a BFTA importer's declaration.

(xiii) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement (OFTA), including an OFTA importer's declaration.

(xiv) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA), including a PTPA importer's certification.

(xv) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (UKFTA), including a UKFTA importer's certification.

(xvi) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (CTPA), including a CTPA importer's certification.

(xvii) The maintenance of any documentation that the importer may have in support of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (PANTPA), including a PANTPA importer's certification.

(xviii) Any other activity required to be undertaken pursuant to the laws or regulations administered by Customs.
