
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 165 - INVESTIGATION OF CLAIMS OF EVASION OF ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
#### ยง 165.0 Scope.

This part relates to allegations by the public and requests from Federal agencies for an investigation regarding the evasion of antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders and the procedures by which CBP investigates such claims consistent with the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (TFTEA), which contains Title IV-Prevention of Evasion of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Orders (short title "Enforce and Protect Act of 2015" or "EAPA") (Pub. L. 114-125, 130 Stat. 122, 155, Feb. 24, 2016) (19 U.S.C. 4301 note). This part includes the requirements for the filing of allegations and requests for investigations, the investigation procedures, and administrative review of determinations as to evasion of AD/CVD orders under the EAPA. The procedures under this part are not the exclusive manner by which CBP may receive allegations or requests for an investigation from Federal agencies or investigate such allegations or requests with respect to the evasion of AD/CVD orders. An investigation as described in this part, if initiated by CBP, does not preclude CBP or any other government entity from initiating any other investigation or proceeding pursuant to any other provision of law, including proceedings initiated under 19 U.S.C. 1592.
