
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Subpart F - Expedited Petitioning Procedures
##### ยง 171.51 Application and definitions.
###### Application.

(a)The following definitions, regulations, and criteria are designed to establish and implement procedures required by section 6079 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-690, title VI (102 Stat. 4181). They are intended to supplement existing law and procedures relative to the forfeiture of property under the identified statutory authority. The provisions of these regulations do not affect the existing legal and equitable rights and remedies of those with an interest in property seized for forfeiture, nor do these provisions relieve interested parties from their existing obligations and responsibilities in pursuing their interests through such courses of action. These regulations are intended to reflect the intent of Congress to minimize the adverse impact occasioned by the prolonged detention of property subject to forfeiture due to violations of law involving possession of personal use quantities of controlled substances. The definition of personal use quantities of controlled substance as contained herein is intended to distinguish between those quantities small in amount which are generally considered to be possessed for personal consumption and not for distribution, and those larger quantities generally considered to be subject to distribution.
