
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix A to Part 171 - Guidelines for Disposition of Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1497
##### Other Applicable Rules.

III.

1. These guidelines provide a framework and procedure by which violations of 19 U.S.C. 1497 are to be analyzed. They are not mandatory in the sense that they must be absolutely applied. Customs officers varying from these guidelines must provide reasons for doing so in the case record.

2. Customs officers shall document mitigating and aggravating factors found in each case in the case file. There must be a basis shown for mitigated amounts.

3. It is intended that mitigating and aggravating factors shall be considered together and used to offset each other where appropriate.

4. The rate of duty to be used in calculating the mitigated penalty shall be the appropriate rate from Chapters 1-97, HTSUS, and not the flat rate from Chapter 98, HTSUS.

5. "Duty" means Customs duties and any internal revenue taxes which would have attached upon importation (see section 101.1(i), Customs Regulations). Therefore, multiples will also be applied to internal revenue taxes which would have been due.

6. Customs officers may, within their discretion, consider other factors not here delineated as aggravating or mitigating and apply the guidelines accordingly. These additional factors must also be documented in the case file.

7. These guidelines are not authority for admitting into the commerce of the United States articles which are conditionally or absolutely prohibited from entry.

8. The presence of one or more extraordinary aggravating factors, including but not limited to those set forth in section I.6. of these guidelines, may within the discretion of the deciding officer be a basis for denial of relief.
