
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix B to Part 171 - Customs Regulations, Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1592
##### Generally.,i.e.,,i.e.,

(a)As provided in ยง 162.77, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 162.77), if the appropriate Customs field officer has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of section 592 has occurred and determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Customs field officer will issue to each person concerned a notice of intent to issue a claim for a monetary penalty (the "pre-penalty notice"). In issuing such a pre-penalty notice, the Customs field officer will make a tentative determination of the degree of culpability and the amount of the proposed claim. Payment of any actual and/or potential loss of duty will not affect or reduce the total loss of duty used for assessing penalties as set forth in these guidelines. The "multiples" set forth in paragraphs (F)(2)(a)(i), (b)(i) and (c)(i) involving assessment and disposition of duty loss violation cases will use the amount of total loss of duty in arriving at the appropriate assessment or disposition. Further, where separate duty loss and non-duty loss violations occur on the same entry, it is within the Customs field officer's discretion to assess both duty loss and non-duty loss penalties, or only one of them. Where only one of the penalties is assessed, the Customs field officer has the discretion to select which penalty (duty loss or non-duty loss) shall be assessed. Also, where there is a violation accompanied by an incidental or nominal loss of duties, the Customs field officer may assess a non-duty loss penalty where the incidental or nominal duty loss resulted from a separate non-duty loss violation. The Customs field officer will propose a level of culpability in the pre-penalty notice that conforms to the level of culpability suggested by the evidence at the time of issuance. Moreover, the pre-penalty notice will include a statement that it is Customs practice to base its actions on the earliest point in time that the statute of limitations may be asserted (the date of occurrence of the alleged violation) inasmuch as the final resolution of a case in court may be less than a finding of fraud. A pre-penalty notice that is issued to a party in a case where Customs determines a claimed prior disclosure is not valid-owing to the disclosing party's knowledge of the commencement of a formal investigation of a disclosed violation-will include a copy of a written document that evidences the commencement of a formal investigation. In addition, a pre-penalty notice is not required if a violation involves a non-commercial importation or if the proposed claim does not exceed $1,000. Special guidelines relating to penalty assessment and dispositions involving "Arriving Travelers," are set forth in section (L) below.
