
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix B to Part 171 - Customs Regulations, Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1592
##### i.e.,

(5) Textile imports that have been the subject of illegal transshipment (false country of origin declaration), whether or not the merchandise bears false country of origin markings,

(6) Evidence of a motive to evade a prohibition or restriction on the admissibility of the merchandise (e.g., evading a quota restriction),

(7) Failure to comply with a lawful demand for records or a Customs summons.

Parties who wish to submit a civil offer in compromise pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1617 (also known as a "settlement offer") in connection with any section 592 claim or potential section 592 claim should follow the procedures outlined in ยง 161.5 of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR 161.5). Settlement offers do not involve "mitigation" of a claim or potential claim, but rather "compromise" an action or potential action where Customs evaluation of potential litigation risks, or the alleged violator's financial position, justifies such a disposition. In any case where a portion of the offered amount represents a tender of unpaid duties, taxes and fees, Customs letter of acceptance may identify the portion representing any such duty, tax and fee. The offered amount should be deposited at the Customs field office responsible for handling the section 592 claim or potential section 592 claim. The offered amount will be held in a suspense account pending acceptance or rejection of the offer in compromise. In the event the offer is rejected, the concerned Customs field office will promptly initiate a refund of the money deposited in the suspense account to the offeror.

Section 592(d) demands for actual losses of duty ordinarily are issued in connection with a penalty action, or as a separate demand without an associated penalty action. In either case, information must be present establishing a violation of section 592(a). In those cases where the appropriate Customs field officer determines that issuance of a penalty under section 592 is not warranted (notwithstanding the presence of information establishing a violation of section 592(a)), but that circumstances do warrant issuance of a demand for payment of an actual loss of duty pursuant to section 592(d), the Customs field officer shall follow the procedures set forth in section 162.79b of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR 162.79b). Except in cases where less than one year remains before the statute of limitations may be raised as a defense, information copies of all section 592(d) demands should be sent to all concerned sureties and the importer of record if such party is not an alleged violator. Also, except in cases where less than one year remains before the statute of limitations may be raised as a defense, Customs will endeavor to issue all section 592(d) demands to concerned sureties and non-violator importers of record only after default by principals.

If a customs broker commits a section 592 violation and the violation involves fraud, or the broker commits a grossly negligent or negligent violation and shares in the benefits of the violation to an extent over and above customary brokerage fees, the customs broker will be subject to these guidelines. However, if the customs broker commits either a grossly negligent or negligent violation of section 592 (without sharing in the benefits of the violation as described above), the concerned Customs field officer may proceed against the customs broker pursuant to the remedies provided under 19 U.S.C. 1641.
