
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix B to Part 171 - Customs Regulations, Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1592
##### Special Assessments/Dispositions.

(g)No penalty action under section 592 will be initiated against an arriving traveler if the violation is not fraudulent or commercial, the loss of duty is $100.00 or less, and there are no other concurrent or prior violations of section 592 or other statutes prohibiting false or fraudulent importation practices. However, all lawful duties, taxes and fees will be collected. Also, no penalty under section 592 will be initiated against an arriving traveler if the violation is not fraudulent or commercial, there are no other concurrent or prior violations of section 592, and a penalty is not believed necessary to deter future violations or to serve a law enforcement purpose.

Violations of laws administered by other federal agencies (such as the Food and Drug Administration, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of Agriculture, Fish and Wildlife Service) should be referred to the appropriate agency for its recommendation. Such recommendation, if promptly tendered, will be given due consideration, and may be followed provided the recommendation would not result in a disposition inconsistent with these guidelines.

In compliance with the mandate of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, under appropriate circumstances, the issuance of a penalty under section 592 may be waived for businesses qualifying as small business entities.

Procedures established for small business entities regarding violations of 19 U.S.C. 1592 were published as Treasury Decision 97-46 in the(62 FR 30378) on June 3, 1997.
