
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### i.e.

A. When a penalty against a broker is contemplated, the "appropriate Customs officer", (, the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer) shall issue a written notice which advises the violator of the allegations which would warrant imposition of a penalty. The written notice shall be in a format similar to a prepenalty notice that would be issued in contemplation of assessment of a penalty under section 1592 or 1584.

B. The written notice shall inform the violator that he has 30 days to respond as to why a penalty should not be issued. See 19 CFR 111.92.

C. If no response is received from the violator, or, if after receipt of the response, it is determined that the penalty should be issued as stated in the prepenalty notice, a notice of penalty CF-5955A shall be issued formally assessing a monetary penalty against the broker.

D. The Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer may reduce the amount of the contemplated penalty or cancel its issuance altogether if, after review of the violator's submission in response to the prepenalty notice, he is satisfied that the acts which are the basis for the penalty did not occur as charged or occurred in a manner that would permit a reduction in the contemplated penalty.

E. After issuance of a penalty notice, the petitioning provisions of part 171 of the Customs Regulations are in effect.

F. If the broker does not comply with a final mitigation decision within 60 days, the matter shall be referred to the Department of Justice for commencement of judicial action.

A. No person may conduct Customs business, other than solely on behalf of that person, without a broker's license.

B. Penalty amount:

1. The maximum penalty for any one incident of conducting Customs business without a license is $10,000.

2. Total aggregate penalties for violation of this or any other section of the broker penalty statute is $30,000. As a general rule, $10,000 will be the maximum assessment for a violation solely involving conducting Customs business without a license, without regard to the frequency of violations. In particularly aggravated circumstances, this rule shall be suspended.

C. Customs business includes:

1. Classification and valuation.

2. Payment of duties, taxes or other charges.

3. Drawback or refund of duties.

4. Filing of entries or other documents relating to issues covered by 1-3.

D. Customs business does not include:

1. Marine transactions.

2. In-bond movement or transportation of merchandise.

3. Foreign Trade Zone admissions. See C.S.D. 84-23.

E. Penalty amounts to be imposed for transacting Customs business without a license are as follows:

1. No penalty action when importation is conducted on behalf of a family member. For purposes of this subsection, "family member" is defined as a parent, child, spouse, sibling, grandparent or grandchild.

2. No penalty action against an individual who has a power of attorney to act as an unpaid agent on a non-commercial shipment. See 19 CFR 141.33.

3. A $250 penalty for:

a. First violation when transaction is non-commercial but is conducted on behalf of any business entity, or
