
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### i.e.,or

b. First violation where the importation is commercial in nature (, imported merchandise is for resale)where the violator is compensated for his action, e.g., an importation of raw material or parts of merchandise that is to be manufactured, refined or assembled here before resale would be a commercial entry because the merchandise eventually would be resold, albeit in another form than that which it was entered.

4. A $1,000 penalty for repeat violation involving:

a. Commercial importation.

b. Non-commercial importation made on behalf of a business entity.

c. Non-commercial importation for which compensation is received by the violator.

5. A $10,000 penalty when:

a. Violator falsely holds himself out as being a licensed Customs broker.

b. A continuing course of conduct can be shown (determined by frequency of violations or number of entries involved) which would indicate that the violator is entering merchandise for others on a regular commercial basis, e.g., if the violator has incurred numerous penalties under subsections (3) and (4) above, but the smaller penalties have had no deterrent effect, the $10,000 penalty under this subsection should be assessed in an action separate from those smaller penalties.

F. Mitigation-No mitigation will be afforded for any violation involving conducting Customs business without a license unless the violator can show an inability to pay such penalty.

G. IMPORTANT: As a general rule, a separate penalty should not be imposed for each unlawful Customs business transaction if numerous transactions occur contemporaneously. For example:

1. If an unlicensed individual files six commercial entries at one time, that should be treated as one violation. It should not be treated as six violations because the entries were presented contemporaneously.

2. If Customs discovers that an individual has conducted Customs business without a license on numerous occasions, but such individual acted without knowledge of the prohibition on such conduct, those numerous transactions should be treated as one violation for purposes of imposition of any penalty.

H.Conducting Customs business without a license is not the same violation as conducting Customs business without a permit. The latter violation is discussed later in this appendix in the section involving Violation of Other Laws or Regulations Enforced by Customs.

I. Intent to violate the law is not an element of this violation. Reference to "intentionally transacts Customs business" in subsection 1641(b)(6) relates to the intentional transaction of the business itself, not to any intentional attempt to violate the terms of the statute.

A. If the license would not have been issued but for the false statement, the proper sanction would be suspension or revocation of the license. If the false or misleading statement would not have absolutely resulted in the denial, revocation or suspension of a license, then penalty sanctions are proper.

B. Material facts include but are not limited to:

1. Facts as to identity.

2. Facts as to citizenship status of an individual.

3. Facts as to moral character of an individual which relate to his fitness to conduct Customs business.

4. The organization of any corporation, association or partnership.

5. The status of the license of a license holder who is a corporate officer or partner.

C. Penalty Amount-$5,000 for each false statement, to a maximum of $30,000.

D. Examples of situations where revocation of the license is appropriate.

1. An applicant states that he is 21 years old (as required by 19 CFR 111.11) and he is not. But for the false statement, the applicant could not meet the age requirement for a license.

2. An applicant provides an alias in the application which is a material false statement as to identity.

E. Mitigation guidelines.

1. Violation due to clerical error (clerical error as defined by 19 U.S.C. 1520(c)(1)), mitigated without payment.

2. Violation due to negligence.

a. This is defined as more than clerical error, but not an intentional violation. Examples include:

i. Failing to list a new corporate office because corporate records have not been kept current.

ii. Listing an incorrect address for a reference because applicant has failed to update his records.

b. Mitigate to $500 for each $5,000 penalty assessed.
