
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### i.e.

c. This category excludes cases of harmless error,, a mistake which could not possibly harm the government's interests. Cases falling in this category should be mitigated in full.

3. Intentional violations-Revocation of a license which has been granted is the preferred sanction. If no license has been granted, no mitigation.

A. As a general rule, license revocation is the standard sanction for these violations. If the conviction occurs subsequent to the filing of an application, monetary penalties may be assessed according to the following criteria.

B. Unlawful conduct must relate to:

1. Importation or exportation of merchandise.

2. Conduct of Customs business (this shall include violations relating to taxes and duties and documents required to be filed with regard to such taxes and duties).

3. Relevant convictions would include:

a. 18 U.S.C. 1001-making a false statement to Customs or any other agency with regard to any relevant transaction.

b. 18 U.S.C. 545-unlawful importation of merchandise.

c. 18 U.S.C. 542-unlawful importation by means of a fraudulent act or omission.

d. 22 U.S.C. 2778-illegal exportation of munitions.

C. Monetary penalties may not be imposed in connection with convictions relating to conduct described in subsection 1641(d)(1)(B)(iii) including larceny, theft, robbery, extortion, counterfeiting, fraudulent concealment or conversion, embezzlement or misappropriation of funds. Either suspension or revocation is the appropriate penalty for these infractions.

D. Penalty amounts.

1. $15,000 for a misdemeanor conviction.

2. $30,000 for a felony conviction.

E. Mitigation.

1. For a misdemeanor conviction, mitigation to a lesser amount is permitted if the conviction related to Customs business and the domestic value of the merchandise involved is less than $15,000. In such case, mitigation to an amount equal to the domestic value of the merchandise is appropriate.

2. For other misdemeanor convictions, no relief.

3. Felony convictions, no relief.
