
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### Exception:

A. Penalties under this section may be imposed in addition to any penalty provided for under the law enforced by Customs.Penalties imposed against a broker under 19 U.S.C. 1592 at a culpability level of less than fraud or under 19 U.S.C. 1595a(b) shall not be imposed in addition to a broker's penalty.

B. Additional penalties under this section shall also be imposed against any broker where the other statute violated only moves against property, or the violator has demonstrated a continuing course of illegal conduct or evidence exists which indicates repeated violations of other statutes or regulations.

C. Conducting Customs business without a permit penalties should be assessed under this section.

1. The penalty notice should also cite 19 CFR 111.19 as the regulation violated. A party operating without a permit is required to apply for one under the above-noted regulation.

2. Assessment amount-$1,000 per transaction conducted without a permit.

3. Mitigation.

a. Negligence, mitigate to $250-$500 per transaction depending on the presence of mitigating factors (lack of knowledge of permit requirement).

b. Intentional, grant no relief.

c. No mitigation if permit revoked by operation of law.

4. Generally, a separate penalty should not be assessed for each non-permitted transaction if numerous transactions occurred contemporaneously. For example, if a broker files 30 entries the day after a permit expires, the 30 filings should be treated as one violation, not 30 separate violations.

D. Penalties for failure to exercise due diligence in payment, refund or deposit of monies received from clients in connection with clients' Customs business also should be assessed under this section. This includes failure to pay over to a client, or file a written statement to a client accounting for, funds received.

1. The penalty notice should also cite 19 CFR 111.29 as the regulation violated.

2. Assessment amount-an amount equal to the value of any monies up to a maximum of $30,000, to be deposited with Customs or refunded or accounted for to a client.

3. No mitigation shall be afforded until the monies are properly paid to Customs or refunded or accounted for to the clients.
