
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### by the violating broker

4. If any claims for liquidated damages result against the client's bond from the failure to pay monies to Customs, no mitigation from the penalty shall be granted until the claim for liquidated damages is settledeither through payment of the full claim or a mitigated amount.

5. After monies are paid or accounted for and/or liquidated damages claims are settled as stated in 3. and 4. above, mitigation may be afforded. If the violator is found to be negligent, the penalty may be mitigated to an amount between 25 and 50 percent of the assessed amount, but no lower than $250. No mitigation from an intentional violation.

E. Penalties for failure to retain powers of attorney from clients to act in their names.

1. The penalty notice should also cite 19 CFR 141.46 as the regulation violated.

2. Assessment amount-$1,000 for each power of attorney not on file.

3. Mitigation-for a first offense, mitigate to an amount between $250 and $500 unless extraordinary mitigating factors are present, in which case full mitigation should be afforded. An extraordinary mitigating factor would be a fire, theft or other destruction of records beyond broker control. Subsequent offenses-no mitigation unless extraordinary mitigating factors are present.

4. Penalty should be mitigated in full if it can be established that a valid power of attorney had been issued to the broker, but it was misplaced or destroyed through clerical error or mistake.

F. If the other statute violated moves only against property, the violator shall incur a monetary penalty equal to the domestic value of such property or $30,000, whichever is less.

G. Use of a broker's importation bond to aid an importer who has had his immediate delivery privileges revoked.

1. The broker has aided his client in avoiding the immediate delivery sanctions. The penalty notice should cite 19 CFR 142.25(c) as the regulation violated. Before assessment of this penalty, the broker should be shown to have known or been negligent in not knowing of the client's sanction.

2. A penalty equal to the value of the merchandise, not to exceed $30,000, should be assessed.

3. Mitigation-The penalty shall be mitigated to an amount between 25 and 50 percent of that assessed for a first violation where negligence is shown. Any knowing violation or a subsequent negligent violation (not necessarily involving the same client) will result in no mitigation.

H. If the other statute violated provides for a personal penalty, the violator shall incur an additional monetary penalty under this section equal to such personal penalty or $30,000, whichever is less.

I. Penalties assessed under this provision are not limited to violations just involving Customs business as defined in the statute.

J. Mitigation guidelines.

1. If the other law violated moves only against property, mitigate the penalty using guidelines in effect for the other statute violated. For example, if the broker is responsible for a 401 seizure of merchandise valued at $45,000, he incurs a penalty of $30,000. The guidelines for remission of the 401 forfeiture are applicable to mitigation of the broker penalty. Thus, if the forfeiture is remitted upon payment of 5 percent of the merchandise's value, the penalty will be mitigated upon payment of a like amount.

2. If the other law violated provides for a personal penalty, mitigate the broker penalty using guidelines in effect for the other statute violated.

A. If the law violated by another moves only against property, a monetary penalty equal to the domestic value of such property or $30,000 whichever is less, may be imposed against the broker who counsels, commands or knowingly aids and abets such violation.

B. If the law violated provides for only a personal penalty against the actual violator, a penalty may be imposed against the broker in an amount equal to that assessed against the violator, but in no case can the penalty exceed $30,000.

C. If the broker is assessed a penalty under the statute violated by the other person, he may be assessed a penalty under this section in addition to any other penalties.

D. Examples of violations of this subsection:

1. A broker counsels a client that certain gemstones are absolutely free of duty and need not be declared upon entry into the United States. The client arrives in the United States and fails to declare a quantity of gemstones worth $45,000. A penalty of $30,000 may be imposed against the broker for such counseling. The client would incur a personal penalty of $45,000 under the provisions of title 19, United States Code, section 1497, but the penalty against the broker cannot exceed $30,000.

2. A client imports $15,000 worth of merchandise by vessel. The merchandise is unladen at the wharf but Customs has not appraised or released it. Customs informs the broker that the shipment must be held for an intensive examination. The broker informs the client that the merchandise can be moved and delivered to the consignee. The broker assures his client that he will handle all the necessary paperwork. The merchandise is moved from the wharf. The broker is subject to a $15,000 penalty for counseling and inducing his client to violate the provisions of title 19, United States Code, section 1448 and title 19, United States Code, section 1595a(b).

E. Mitigation-Follow guidelines applicable to the other penalty or forfeiture statute involved.

A. A broker has 30 days to seek approval of the Secretary for such employment. If he seeks the approval within such time, no penalty will be assessed.

B. A $5,000 penalty for knowingly employing any convicted felon and failing to make application with the Secretary approving such employment within 30 days of the date of discovery of the felony conviction.

C. A $25,000 penalty for knowingly employing any convicted felon without seeking approval for employment.

D. A $30,000 penalty for knowingly employing any convicted felon and continuing to employ same after approval has been denied (generally revocation or suspension of the license would be appropriate under this circumstance).
