
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### Example:

E.If a broker unknowingly employs a convicted felon and 1 year after employment discovers the existence of such a conviction, the following actions would dictate imposition of a penalty:

1. If he seeks approval of the Secretary within 30 days after discovery of the existence of the conviction, no penalty will be assessed.

2. If he seeks approval at some time after 30 days from the date of discovery, a $5,000 penalty would lie.

3. If he does not seek approval until after Customs becomes aware of the violation, a $25,000 penalty would lie.

4. If he seeks approval, but is denied, and continues to employ the convicted felon, a $30,000 penalty would lie.

F. Customs discovery of a felony conviction. If Customs discovers the felony conviction and there is no indication that the employer is aware of same, Customs may inform the employer of such conviction. Discretion should be used in divulging this information.

G. Mitigation will only be permitted from the $5,000 penalty as follows:

1. If the application for approval is submitted within 60 days, but after 30 days, mitigate to $2,000.

2. If there is no application beyond the 60-day period, no mitigation shall be granted. Continued employment will result in further penalties as described above in sections E.3 and E.4.

A. An unsubstantiated accusation by a client is inadequate basis to assess any penalty under this section of law.

B. A $30,000 penalty should be imposed for any violation of this section.

C. Mitigation-Inasmuch as evidence of intent must be shown before a penalty can be imposed, no mitigation should be permitted if a violation is found to lie. A petition for mitigation could be entertained only on the issue of whether such violation did, in fact, occur.
