
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### Important:

A.Violation of this section results in the revocation of a permit by operation of law.

B. Penalties may be imposed for violation of the provisions of 1641(d)(1)(C), violation of other laws enforced by Customs. Guidelines for imposition of penalties for conducting Customs business without a permit should be followed.

C. Mitigation-No mitigation should be permitted from any penalty imposed for failure to have a permit when the permit lapses by operation of law.

A. Standards of responsible supervision and control shall be issued by the Commissioner of Customs. Statutory authority to set such standards is provided by section 1641(f).

B. The following penalty amounts shall be assessed against brokers who fail to exercise responsible supervision and control over business conducted at district level.

1. A penalty of $1,000 against any broker who:

a. Continuously makes the same errors on a particular type of entry;

b. Fails to properly instruct employees about Customs business, thereby resulting in the filing of incorrect entries or the mishandling of transactions relating to Customs business;

c. Knowingly allows his entry bond to be used to effect release of merchandise in districts where he does not have a license or permit (this is imposed in addition to any penalty for conducting Customs business without a license);

d. Fails to comply with regulations or procedures but does not commit violations that would warrant any higher penalty amount as described below.

2. A penalty of $5,000 against any broker who, when requested, is unable to produce documents relating to specific Customs business which are material to that business (e.g., if the business regards an entry he should have the invoice, packing list, etc.). This requirement excludes documents not required to be kept by a broker.

3. A penalty of $5,000 against any broker who is unable to satisfy the deciding Customs official that he has a working knowledge of any operation material to his ability to render valuable service to others in the conduct of Customs business.

Examples include:

a. A working knowledge of all automated systems in use in the district;

b. A knowledge of the cash flow procedures in each district of operation;

c. Retention of copies of all surety bonds in proper form and in sufficient dollar amount;

d. Knowledge of filing systems and document record storage in each district;

e. Continuous monitoring to ensure timely payment of all obligations including duties, taxes and refunds.

4. A penalty of $5,000 against any broker who fails to exercise responsible supervision and control over the Customs business that it conducts as defined in section XI.C. of this appendix.

5. A penalty of $10,000 against any broker who is found to have failed to maintain satisfactory accounting records or records of documents filed with Customs on any matter.

C. The following factors shall be indicative of a lack of supervision or lack of working knowledge of Customs procedures (the list is not conclusive):

1. A high rate of entry rejections when compared with other brokers in the permitted district.

2. A high rate of late filing liquidated damages cases when compared with other brokers in the permitted district.

3. In the case of entry summaries filed in the broker's name, a high number of missing document cases when compared with other brokers in the permitted district.

4. An inordinate number of entries for which free entry is claimed, but no documentation supporting such claim is submitted, resulting in liquidation of the entries as dutiable.

5. Inability to assist or failure to cooperate with an audit, including failure to provide all records and any other necessary information pertaining to a broker's Customs business to assist auditors.

6. Failure to settle (including petitioning) liquidated damages claims in a timely manner.

7. Evidence to indicate that timely duty refunds to clients are not made or accounted for and adequate records of same are not kept (usually will result in penalty assessed in accordance with section B.5. above).

8. Employing a licensed individual for a minimal number of days each 120- or 180-day period (see sections 1641(b)(5) and 1641(c)(3) so as to avoid violation of the statute.

a. For purposes of imposition of penalties under this subsection, a minimal number of days shall be 10 working days for each 120-day period or 15 working days for each 180-day period.
