
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### prima facie

b. It shall be presumed that temporary employment of such a licensed individual is undertaken solely to avoid revocation of a license or permit. Such minimal employment shall beevidence of lack of supervision.

D. Mitigation.

1. $1,000 penalties shall not be mitigated unless the broker can show that extraordinary mitigating factors are present.

2. $5,000 penalties for failure to produce documents may be mitigated to an amount between $2,000 and $3,500 if the documents are produced but not in a timely fashion. No mitigation shall be afforded if the documents are not produced, unless the broker can satisfactorily demonstrate that such failure to produce was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the broker or his client (e.g., a rupture of relations with the party responsible for generating the documents). Full mitigation shall be afforded in the case of destruction of records by events beyond a broker's control, such as theft, flood, fire or other acts of God.

3. $5,000 penalty for failure to have a working knowledge of any operation for which a broker is licensed to do business may be mitigated to a lesser amount upon a showing by the broker that steps have been taken to improve instruction and supervision of employees and an improvement in the knowledge of his operation occurs.

4. $5,000 penalty for failure to exercise responsible supervision and control may be mitigated to a lesser amount if the broker immediately corrects the problem which was the basis for the assessment and sufficiently monitors the situation to avoid recurrence.
