
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 171 - FINES, PENALTIES, AND FORFEITURES
#### Appendix C to Part 171 - Customs Regulations Guidelines for the Imposition and Mitigation of Penalties for Violations of 19 U.S.C. 1641
##### bona fide

5. $10,000 penalty for failure to maintain satisfactory accounting records will only be subject to mitigation in full if the broker can prove that satisfactory accounting records and documents records are being kept. Mitigation in a lesser degree may be afforded upon a showing by the broker that aattempt was made to establish a satisfactory accounting and/or recordkeeping system, or upgrade a deficient system, but such efforts proved unsuccessful or only partially effective.

6. Penalty equal to the value of monies not properly paid or accounted for.

a. If the broker shows that the monies were paid or accounted for and requisite notifications were made, albeit in an untimely fashion not to exceed 30 days after any due date, the penalty may be mitigated upon payment of 25 percent of the assessed amount, but no less than $250.

b. If the monies were paid and notifications made more than 30 days after any due date, the penalty may be mitigated upon payment of 50 percent of the assessed amount, but not less than $1,000.

c. If there is no proof of proper payment of duties, refunds, etc., no mitigation shall be granted.

A. A broker shall be penalized a maximum of $30,000 for any violation or violations of the statute in any one penalty notice.

B. If a broker is penalized to the maximum the statute will allow and continues to commit the same violation or violations, revocation or suspension of his license would be the appropriate sanction. Barring such revocation or suspension action, he may again be penalized to the maximum the statute will allow.

C. From any one audit, the maximum aggregate penalty for all violations discovered is $30,000.

Whenever multiple penalties arising from a particular fact situation or pattern are contemplated against brokers or individuals operating in different districts, the cases may be consolidated in one district. Approval for consolidation must be sought from the Trade Policy and Programs, Office of International Trade.
