
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 10 - ARTICLES CONDITIONALLY FREE, SUBJECT TO A REDUCED RATE, ETC.
#### Subpart F - Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act
##### Extension of ATPA Benefits to Tuna and Certain Other Non-Textile Articles
###### ยง 10.256 Maintenance of records and submission of Certificate by importer.
####### Submission of Certificate.

(b)An importer who claims preferential treatment on an article under ยง 10.255(a) must provide, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the Certificate of Origin pertaining to the article. A Certificate of Origin submitted to Customs under this paragraph:

(1) Must be on CBP Form 449, including privately-printed copies of that Form, or, as an alternative to CBP Form 449, in an approved computerized format or other medium or format as is approved by the Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC 20229. An alternative format must contain the same information and certification set forth on CBP Form 449;

(2) Must be signed by the producer or exporter or by the producer's or exporter's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts;

(3) Must be completed either in the English language or in the language of the country from which the article is exported. If the Certificate is completed in a language other than English, the importer must provide to Customs upon request a written English translation of the Certificate; and

(4) May be applicable to:

(i) A single importation of an article into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or

(ii) Multiple importations of identical articles into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not to exceed 12 months, set out in the Certificate by the exporter. For purposes of this paragraph, "identical articles" means articles that are the same in all material respects, including physical characteristics, quality, and reputation.
