
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 177 - ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS
#### Subpart A - General Ruling Procedure
##### ยง 177.1 General ruling practice and definitions.
###### Definitions.

(d)(1) A "ruling" is a written statement issued by the Headquarters Office or the appropriate office of Customs as provided in this part that interprets and applies the provisions of the Customs and related laws to a specific set of facts. A "ruling letter" is a ruling issued in response to a written request therefor and set forth in a letter addressed to the person making the request or his designee. A "published ruling" is a ruling which has been published in the Customs Bulletin.

(2) An "information letter" is a written statement issued by the Customs Service that does no more than call attention to a well-established interpretation or principle of Customs law, without applying it to a specific set of facts. An information letter may be issued in response to a request for a ruling when: (i) The request suggests that general information, rather than a ruling, is actually being sought, (ii) the request is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the requirements set forth in this part, or (iii) the ruling requested cannot be issued for any other reason, and (iv) it is believed that general information may be of some benefit to the party making the request.

(3) A "Customs transaction" is an act or activity to which the Customs and related laws apply. A "prospective" Customs transaction is one that is contemplated or is currently being undertaken and has not resulted in any arrival or the filing of any entry or other document, or in any other act to bring the transaction, or any part of it, under the jurisdiction of any Customs Service office. A "current" Customs transaction is one which is presently under consideration by a port office of the Customs Service. A "completed" Customs transaction is one which has been acted upon by a Customs Service field office and with respect to which that office has issued a determination which is final in nature, but is (or was) subject to appeal, petition, protest, or other review, as provided in the applicable Customs laws and regulations. In a series of identical, recurring transactions, each transaction shall be considered an individual transaction for purposes of this part.

(4) An "authorized agent" is a person expressly authorized by a principal to act on his behalf. A ruling requested by an attorney or other person acting as an agent must include a statement describing the authority under which the request is made. With the exception of attorneys whose authority to represent is known, any person appearing before the Customs Service as an agent in connection with a ruling request may be required to present evidence of his authority to represent the principal. The foregoing requirements will not apply to an individual representing his full-time employer, or to a bona-fide officer, director, or other qualified representative of a corporation, association, or organized group.

(5) The term "Customs and related laws," as generally used in this part, includes any provision of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (including the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), or the Customs Regulations, or any provision contained in other legislation (including the navigation laws), regulations, treaties, orders, proclamations, or other agreements administered by the Customs Service.

(6) The term "Headquarters Office," as used herein, means the Regulations and Rulings, Office of international Trade at Headquarters, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC.
