
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 177 - ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS
#### Subpart A - General Ruling Procedure
##### § 177.2 Submission of ruling requests.
###### Tariff classification rulings.

(ii)(A) If the transaction involves the importation of an article for which a ruling as to its proper classification under the provisions of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States is requested, the request for a ruling should include a full and complete description of the article and whenever germane to the proper classification of the article, information as to the article's chief use in the United States, its commercial, common, or technical designation, and, where the article is composed of two or more materials, the relative quantity (by weight and by volume) and value of each. The ruling request should also note, whenever germane, the purchase price of the article, and its approximate selling price in the United States. Individual requests for rulings submitted to service port offices will be limited to five (5) merchandise items, all of which must be of the same class or kind.

(B) Rulings issued by the Director, National Commodity Specialist Division, or any service port office are limited to prospective transactions. Only the Headquarters Office will prepare final decisions under § 177.11 (Requests for Advice by Field Officers), or § 174.23 (Further Review of Protests), § 177.10 (Change of Practice), decisions under part 175 of this chapter (petitions under section 516, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended), decisions under § 177.13 (Inconsistent Customs decisions), and decisions under Policies and Procedures Manual Supplement 2126-01.

(C) The requesting party may send the request directly to the Director, Commercial and Trade Facilitation Division, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC 20229. The Headquarters Office retains authority to independently review all tariff classification ruling letters issued by the Director, National Commodity Specialist Division, and any service port office. If the importer or other person to whom a ruling letter is issued disagrees with the tariff classification set forth in a ruling issued by the Director, National Commodity Specialist Division, or any service port office, he may petition the Director, Commercial Rulings Division, U.S. Customs Service, Washington, DC 20229, for review of the ruling.
