
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 177 - ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS
#### Subpart A - General Ruling Procedure
##### ยง 177.13 Inconsistent CBP decisions.
###### Content.

(2)The petition should contain a complete description of the inconsistent decisions complained of, including the ports of entry (or other CBP office) where the decisions were made, entry numbers, and the dates (or approximate dates) such decisions were made. The information set forth in the petition must be sufficient to demonstrate the inconsistency of the decisions described and that the merchandise, or circumstances in which the allegedly inconsistent decisions were made, were substantially similar. In the case of repeated decisions regarding the inspection or examination of merchandise, the decisions must be sufficient in number to demonstrate a pattern of inconsistency not attributable to random selection. Any information which the petitioner considers to be confidential business information should be so noted pursuant to ยง 177.2(b)(7) of this subpart and a sanitized version of his petition should be submitted as well as the three copies requested in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Petitions which do not contain information sufficient to permit the CBP to verify that the decisions described have occurred will not be considered properly filed and will be returned to the petitioner for additional information. Only one petition will be accepted by the CBP with respect to the decisions alleged to be inconsistent.
