
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Subpart E - Restrictions on Drawback and Duty-Deferral Programs
##### ยง 181.47 Completion of claim for drawback.
###### Same condition drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313(j)(1).

(ii)The following must be submitted in connection with a drawback claim covering a good in the same condition:

(A) A completed CBP Form 7551. In addition, the tariff classification number of the imported goods must be recorded on the form;

(B) CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent. The form must show the entry number, date of entry, port of importation, date of importation, importing carrier, and importer of record or ultimate consignee name and the CBP-assigned or taxpayer identification number. Explicit line item information must be clearly noted on the CBP Form 7501 so that the subject goods are easily discernible;

(C) CBP Form 7505, if applicable, to trace the movement of the imported goods after importation;

(D) A certificate of delivery on CBP Form 7552, or its electronic equivalent, if applicable, for purposes of tracing the transfer of ownership of the imported goods from the importer to the claimant. This is required if the drawback claimant is not the original importer of the merchandise which is the subject of a same condition claim;

(E) In-bond application submitted pursuant to part 18 of this chapter, if applicable. This is required for merchandise which is examined at one port but exported through border points outside of that port. Such goods must travel in bond from the location where they were examined to the point of the border crossing (exportation). If examination is waived, in-bond transportation is not required;

(F) Notification of intent to export or waiver of prior notice;
