
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Subpart I - Advance Ruling Procedures
##### ยง 181.93 Submission of advance ruling requests.
###### Content,General.

(b)-(1)Each request for an advance ruling must identify the specific subject matter under ยง 181.92(b)(6) of this part to which the request relates, must contain a complete statement of all relevant facts relating to the NAFTA transaction and must state that the information presented is accurate and complete. The following facts must be included: the names, addresses, and other identifying information of all interested parties (if known); the name of the port or place at which any good involved in the transaction will be imported or which will otherwise have jurisdiction with respect to the act or activity described in the transaction; and a description of the transaction itself, appropriate in detail to the subject matter of the requested advance ruling. Where the request for an advance ruling is submitted by or on behalf of the importer of the good involved in the transaction, the request must include the name and address of the exporter and, if known, producer of the good. Where the request for an advance ruling is submitted by or on behalf of the exporter of the good involved in the transaction, the request must include the name and address of the producer and importer of the good, if known. Where the request for an advance ruling is submitted by or on behalf of the producer of the good involved in the transaction, the request must include the name and address of the exporter and importer of the good, if known. In addition, where relevant to the issue that is the subject of the request for an advance ruling, and regardless of the specific nature of the advance ruling requested, the request must include:

(i) A copy of any advance ruling or other ruling with respect to the tariff classification of the good that has been issued by CBP to the person submitting the request; or

(ii) Sufficient information to enable CBP to classify the good where no advance ruling or other ruling with respect to the tariff classification of the good has been issued by CBP to the person submitting the request. Such information includes a full description of the good, including, where relevant, the composition of the good, a description of the process by which the good is manufactured, a description of the packaging in which the good is contained, the anticipated use of the good and its commercial, common or technical designation, and product literature, drawings, photographs or schematics.
