
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Subpart I - Advance Ruling Procedures
##### ยง 181.100 Effect of NAFTA advance ruling letters; modification and revocation.
###### Effective dates.

(3)Generally, a NAFTA letter modifying or revoking an earlier advance ruling will be effective on the date it is issued. However, Customs may, upon request or on its own initiative, delay the effective date of such a modification or revocation for a period of up to 90 calendar days from the date of issuance. Such a delay may be granted at the request of the party to whom the ruling letter was issued, provided such party can demonstrate to the satisfaction of Customs that it relied on the earlier advance ruling in good faith and to its detriment. The evidence of such reliance must cover the period from the date of the letter modifying or revoking the advance ruling back to the date of that advance ruling and must list all transactions claimed to be covered by the modified or revoked advance ruling by entry number (or other Customs assigned number), the quantity and value of merchandise covered by each such transaction (where applicable), the ports of entry, and the dates of final action by Customs. Such evidence must also include contracts, purchase orders, or other materials tending to establish that future transactions were arranged based on the earlier advance ruling. The request for delay must specifically identify the prior ruling on which reliance is claimed. All persons requesting a delay will be issued a separate letter setting forth the period, if any, of the delay to be provided. In appropriate circumstances, Customs may decide to make its decision, with respect to a delay, applicable to all persons, irrespective of demonstrated reliance; in this event, a notice announcing the delay will be published in theand individual ruling letters will not be issued.
