
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### NAFTA Rules of Origin Regulations.

This appendix may be cited as the

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces Good A. In the production process, Producer A uses originating Material X and non-originating Material Y to produce Material Z. Material Z is a self-produced material that will be used to produce Good A.

The rule set out in Schedule I for the heading under which Good A is classified specifies a change in tariff classification from any other heading. In this case, both Good A and the non-originating Material Y are of the same heading. However, the self-produced Material Z is of a heading different than that of Good A.

For purposes of determining whether the non-originating materials that are used in the production of Good A undergo the applicable change in tariff classification, Producer A has the option to consider the self-produced Material Z as the material that must undergo a change in tariff classification. As Material Z is of a heading different than that of Good A, Material Z satisfies the applicable change in tariff classification and Good A would qualify as an originating good.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, uses originating materials and non-originating materials in the production of copper anodes provided for in heading 7402. The rule set out in Schedule I for heading 7402 specifies a change in tariff classification from any other chapter. There is no applicable regional value-content requirement for this heading. Therefore, in order for the copper anode to qualify as an originating good under the rule set out in Schedule I, Producer A may not use in the production of the copper anode any non-originating material provided for in Chapter 74.

All of the materials used in the production of the copper anode are originating materials, with the exception of a small amount of copper scrap provided for in heading 7404, that is in the same chapter as the copper anode. Under section 5(1), if the value of the non-originating copper scrap does not exceed seven percent of the transaction value of the copper anode or the total cost of the copper anode, whichever is applicable, the copper anode would be considered an originating good.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, uses originating materials and non-originating materials in the production of ceiling fans provided for in subheading 8414.51. There are two alternative rules set out in Schedule I for subheading 8414.51, one of which specifies a change in tariff classification from any other heading. The other rule specifies both a change in tariff classification from the subheading under which parts of the ceiling fans are classified and a regional value-content requirement. Therefore, in order for the ceiling fan to qualify as an originating good under the first of the alternative rules, all of the materials that are classified under the subheading for parts of ceiling fans and used in the production of the completed ceiling fan must be originating materials.

In this case, all of the non-originating materials used in the production of the ceiling fan satisfy the change in tariff classification set out in the rule that specifies a change in tariff classification from any other heading, with the exception of one non-originating material that is classified under the subheading for parts of ceiling fans. Under section 5(1), if the value of the non-originating material that does not satisfy the change in tariff classification specified in the first rule does not exceed seven percent of the transaction value of the ceiling fan or the total cost of the ceiling fan, whichever is applicable, the ceiling fan would be considered an originating good. Therefore, under section 5(2), the ceiling fan would not be required to satisfy the alternative rule that specifies both a change in tariff classification and a regional value-content requirement.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, uses originating materials and non-originating materials in the production of plastic bags provided for in subheading 3923.29. The rule set out in Schedule I for subheading 3923.29 specifies both a change in tariff classification from any other heading, except from subheadings 3920.20 or 3920.71, under which certain plastic materials are classified, and a regional value-content requirement. Therefore, with respect to that part of the rule that specifies a change in tariff classification, in order for the plastic bag to qualify as an originating good, any plastic materials that are classified under subheading 3920.20 or 3920.71 and that are used in the production of the plastic bag must be originating materials.

In this case, all of the non-originating materials used in the production of the plastic bag satisfy the specified change in tariff classification, with the exception of a small amount of plastic materials classified under subheading 3920.71. Section 5(1) provides that the plastic bag can be considered an originating good if the value of the non-originating plastic materials that do not satisfy the specified change in tariff classification does not exceed seven percent of the transaction value of the plastic bag or the total cost of the plastic bag, whichever is applicable. In this case, the value of those non-originating materials that do not satisfy the specified change in tariff classification does not exceed the seven percent limit.

However, the rule set out in Schedule I for subheading 3923.29 specifies both a change in tariff classification and a regional value-content requirement. Therefore, under section 5(1)(c), in order to be considered an originating good, the plastic bag must also, except as otherwise provided in section 5(5), satisfy the regional value-content requirement specified in that rule. As provided in section 5(1)(c), the value of the non-originating materials that do not satisfy the specified change in tariff classification, together with the value of all other non-originating materials used in the production of the plastic bag, will be taken into account in calculating the regional value content of the plastic bag.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, primarily uses originating materials in the production of shoes provided for in heading 6405. The rule set out in Schedule I for heading 6405 specifies both a change in tariff classification from any subheading other than subheadings 6401.10 through 6406.10 and a regional value-content requirement.

With the exception of a small amount of materials provided for in Chapter 39, all of the materials used in the production of the shoes are originating materials.

Under section 5(5), if the value of all of the non-originating materials used in the production of the shoes does not exceed seven percent of the transaction value of the shoes or the total cost of the shoes, whichever is applicable, the shoes are not required to satisfy the regional value-content requirement specified in the rule set out in Schedule I in order to be considered originating goods.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces barbers' chairs provided for in subheading 9402.10. The rule set out in Schedule I for goods provided for in heading 9402 specifies a change in tariff classification from any other chapter. All of the materials used in the production of these chairs are originating materials, with the exception of a small quantity of non-originating materials that are classified as parts of barbers' chairs. These parts undergo no change in tariff classification because subheading 9402.10 provides for both barbers' chairs and their parts.

Although Producer A's barbers' chairs do not qualify as originating goods under the rule set out in Schedule I, section 4(4)(b) provides, among other things, that, where there is no change in tariff classification from the non-originating materials to the goods because the subheading under which the goods are classified provides for both the goods and their parts, the goods shall qualify as originating goods if they satisfy a specified regional value-content requirement.

However, under section 5(5), if the value of the non-originating materials does not exceed seven percent of the transaction value of the barbers' chairs or the total cost of the barbers' chairs, whichever is applicable, the barbers' chairs will be considered originating goods and are not required to satisfy the regional value-content requirement set out in section 4(4)(b)(v).

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces women's dresses provided for in subheading 6204.41 from fine wool fabric of heading 5112. This fine wool fabric, also produced by Producer A, is the component of the dress that determines its tariff classification under subheading 6204.41.

The rule set out in Schedule I for subheading 6204.41, under which the dress is classified, specifies both a change in tariff classification from any other chapter, except from those headings and chapters under which certain yarns and fabrics, including combed wool yarn and wool fabric, are classified, and a requirement that the good be cut and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of one or more of the NAFTA countries.

Therefore, with respect to that part of the rule that specifies a change in tariff classification, in order for the dress to qualify as an originating good, the combed wool yarn and the fine wool fabric made therefrom that are used by Producer A in the production of the dress must be originating materials.

At one point Producer A uses a small quantity of non-originating combed wool yarn in the production of the fine wool fabric. Under section 5(6), if the total weight of the non-originating combed wool yarn does not exceed seven percent of the total weight of all the yarn used in the production of the component of the dress that determines its tariff classification, that is, the wool fabric, the dress would be considered an originating good.

A producer has only one factory, at which the producer manufactures finished office chairs. Because the factory is located close to transportation facilities, all units of the finished good are stored in a factory warehouse 200 meters from the end of the production line. Goods are shipped worldwide from this warehouse. The point of direct shipment is the warehouse.

A producer has six factories, all located within the territory of one of the NAFTA countries, at which the producer produces garden tools of various types. These tools are shipped worldwide, and orders usually consist of bulk orders of various types of tools. Because different tools are manufactured at different factories, the producer decided to consolidate storage and shipping facilities and ships all finished products to a large warehouse located near the seaport, from which all orders are shipped. The distance from the factories to the warehouse varies from 3 km to 130 km. The point of direct shipment for each of the goods is the warehouse.

A producer has only one factory, located near the center of one of the NAFTA countries, at which the producer manufactures finished office chairs. The office chairs are shipped from that factory to three warehouses leased by the producer, one on the west coast, one near the factory and one on the east coast. The office chairs are shipped to buyers from these warehouses, the shipping location depending on the shipping distance from the buyer. Buyers closest to the west coast warehouse are normally supplied by the west coast warehouse, buyers closest to the east coast are normally supplied by the warehouse located on the east coast and buyers closest to the warehouse near the factory are normally supplied by that warehouse. In this case, the point of direct shipment is the location of the warehouse from which the office chairs are normally shipped to customers in the location in which the buyer is located.

A producer located in NAFTA country A sells Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement to a buyer located in NAFTA country B. The producer of Good A chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method. All applicable requirements of this appendix, other than the regional value-content requirement, have been met. The applicable regional value-content requirement is 50 percent.

In order to calculate the regional value-content of Good A, the producer first calculates the net cost of Good A. Under section 6(11)(a), the net cost is the total cost of Good A (the aggregate of the product costs, period costs and other costs) per unit, minus the excluded costs (the aggregate of the sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs and non-allowable interest costs) per unit. The producer uses the following figures to calculate the net cost:

The net cost is the total cost of Good A, per unit, minus the excluded costs.

The value for net cost ($88) and the value of non-originating materials ($40) are needed in order to calculate the regional value content. The producer calculates the regional value content of Good A under the net cost method in the following manner:

Therefore, under the net cost method, Good A qualifies as an originating good, with a regional value-content of 54.5 percent.

On January 15, 1994, a producer located in NAFTA country A sells 1,000 units of Good A to a related person, located in NAFTA country B. During the six month period beginning on July 1, 1993 and ending on December 31, 1993, the producer sold 90,000 units of identical goods and similar goods to related persons from various countries, including that buyer. The producer's total sales of those identical goods and similar goods to all persons from all countries during that six month period were 100,000 units.

The total quantity of identical goods and similar goods sold by the producer to related persons during that six month period was 90 percent of the producer's total sales of those identical goods and similar goods to all persons. Under section 6(6)(c), the producer must use the net cost method to calculate the regional value content of Good A sold in January 1994, because the 85 percent limit was exceeded.

A producer in a NAFTA country produces Good A and Good B during the producer's fiscal year.

The producer uses the following figures, which are recorded on the producer's books and represent all of the costs incurred with respect to both Good A and Good B, to calculate the net cost of those goods:

The net cost must then be reasonably allocated, in accordance with Schedule VII, to Good A and Good B.

A producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good A and Good B during the producer's fiscal year. In order to calculate the regional value content of Good A and Good B, the producer uses the following figures that are recorded on the producer's books and incurred with respect to those goods:

Under section 6(11)(b), the total cost of Good A and Good B is then reasonably allocated, in accordance with Schedule VII, to those goods. The costs are allocated in the following manner:

The excluded costs ($1,200) that are included in total cost allocated to Good A and Good B, in accordance with Schedule VII, are subtracted from that amount.

The net cost of Good A is thus $4,524, and the net cost of Good B is $3,276.

A Producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good C and Good D. The following costs are recorded on the producer's books for the months of January, February and March, and each cost that forms part of the total cost are reasonably allocated, in accordance with Schedule VII, to Good C and Good D.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement. The producer chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method. Producer A buys Material X from Producer B, located in a NAFTA country. Material X is a non-originating material and is used in the production of Good A. Producer A provides Producer B, at no charge, with tools to be used in the production of Material X. The cost of the tools that is recorded on the books of Producer A has been expensed in the current year. Pursuant to section 5(1)(b)(ii) of Schedule VIII, the value of the tools is included in the value of Material X. Therefore, the cost of the tools that is recorded on the books of Producer A and that has been expensed in the current year cannot be included as a separate cost in the net cost of Good A because it has already been included in the value of Material X.

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement. The producer chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method and averages the calculation over the producer's fiscal year under section 6(15). Producer A determines that during that fiscal year Producer A incurred a gain on foreign currency conversion of $10,000 and a loss on foreign currency conversion of $8,000, resulting in a net gain of $2,000. Producer A also determines that $7,000 of the gain on foreign currency conversion and $6,000 of the loss on foreign currency conversion is related to the purchase of non-originating materials used in the production of Good A, and $3,000 of the gain on foreign currency conversion and $2,000 of the loss on foreign currency conversion is not related to the production of Good A. The producer determines that the total cost of Good A is $45,000 before deducting the $1,000 net gain on foreign currency conversion related to the production of Good A. The total cost of Good A is therefore $44,000. That $1,000 net gain is not included in the value of non-originating materials under section 7(1).

Given the same facts as in example 10, except that Producer A determines that $6,000 of the gain on foreign currency conversion and $7,000 of the loss on foreign currency conversion is related to the purchase of non-originating materials used in the production of Good A. The total cost of Good A is $45,000, which includes the $1,000 net loss on foreign currency conversion related to the production of Good A. That $1,000 net loss is not included in the value of non-originating materials under section 7(1).
