
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

Producer A, located in NAFTA country A, imports material A into NAFTA country A. Producer A purchased material A from a middleman located in country B. The middleman purchased the material from a manufacturer located in country B. Under the laws in NAFTA country A that implement thethe customs value of material A was based on the price actually paid or payable by the middleman to the manufacturer. Producer A uses material A to produce Good C, and exports Good C to NAFTA country D. Good C is subject to a regional value-content requirement.

Under section 4(1) of Schedule VIII, the price actually paid or payable is the total payment made or to be made by the producer to or for the benefit of the seller of the material. Section 1 of that Schedule defines producer and seller for purposes of the Schedule. A producer is the person who uses the material in the production of a good that is subject to a regional value-content requirement. A seller is the person who sells the material being valued to the producer.

The customs value of material A was not determined in a manner consistent with Schedule VIII because it was based on the price actually paid or payable by the middleman to the manufacturer, rather than on the price actually paid or payable by Producer A to the middleman. Thus, section 7(2) applies and material A is valued in accordance with Schedule VIII.

A producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good B, which is subject to a regional value-content requirement under section 4(2)(b). The producer also produces Material A, which is used in the production of Good B. Both originating materials and non-originating materials are used in the production of Material A. Material A is subject to a change in tariff classification requirement under section 4(2)(a). The costs to produce Material A are the following:

The producer designates Material A as an intermediate material and determines that, because all of the non-originating materials that are used in the production of Material A undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in Schedule I, Material A would, under paragraph 4(2)(a) qualify as an originating material. The cost of the non-originating materials used in the production of Material A is therefore not included in the value of non-originating materials that are used in the production of Good B for the purpose of determining the regional value content of Good B. Because Material A has been designated as an intermediate material, the total cost of Material A, which is $10.60, is treated as the cost of originating materials for the purpose of calculating the regional value content of Good B. The total cost of Good B is determined in accordance with the following figures:

The ability to designate intermediate materials helps to put the vertically integrated producer who is self-producing materials that are used in the production of a good on par with a producer who is purchasing materials and valuing those materials in accordance with subsection 7(1). The following situations demonstrate how this is achieved:

A producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good B, which is subject to a regional value-content requirement of 50 percent under the net cost method. Good B satisfies all other applicable requirements of these Regulations. The producer purchases Material A, which is used in the production of Good B, from a supplier located in a NAFTA country. The value of Material A determined in accordance with subsection 7(1) is $11.00. Material A is an originating material. All other materials used in the production of Good B are non-originating materials. The net cost of Good B is determined as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is calculated as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is 76.5 percent, and Good B, therefore, qualifies as an originating good.

A producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good B, which is subject to a regional value-content requirement of 50 percent under the net cost method. Good B satisfies all other applicable requirements of these Regulations. The producer self-produces Material A which is used in the production of Good B. The costs to produce Material A are the following:

Additional costs to produce Good B are the following:

The producer does not designate Material A as an intermediate material under subsection 7(4). The net cost of Good B is calculated as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is calculated as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is 42.9 percent, and Good B, therefore, does not qualify as an originating good.

A producer located in a NAFTA country produces Good B, which is subject to a regional value-content requirement of 50 percent under the net cost method. Good B satisfies all other applicable requirements of these Regulations. The producer self-produces Material A, which is used in the production of Good B. The costs to produce Material A are the following:

Additional costs to produce Good B are the following:

The producer designates Material A as an intermediate material under subsection 7(4). Material A qualifies as an originating material under paragraph 4(2)(a). Therefore, the value of non-originating materials used in the production of Material A is not included in the value of non-originating materials for the purposes of calculating the regional value content of Good B. The net cost of Good B is calculated as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is calculated as follows:

The regional value content of Good B is 76.1 percent, and Good B, therefore, qualifies as an originating good.

Producer A, located in NAFTA country A, produces switches. In order for the switches to qualify as originating goods, Producer A designates subassemblies of the switches as intermediate materials. The subassemblies are subject to a regional value-content requirement. They satisfy that requirement, and qualify as originating materials. The switches are also subject to a regional value-content requirement, and, with the subassemblies designated as intermediate materials, are determined to have a regional value content of 65 percent.

Producer A sells the switches to Producer B, located in NAFTA country B, who uses them to produce switch assemblies that are used in the production of Good B. The switch assemblies are subject to a regional value-content requirement. Producers A and B are not accumulating their production within the meaning of section 14. Producer B is therefore able, under section 7(4), to designate the switch assemblies as intermediate materials.

If Producers A and B were accumulating their production within the meaning of section 14, Producer B would be unable to designate the switch assemblies as intermediate materials, because the production of both producers would be considered to be the production of one producer.

Producer A, located in NAFTA country, produces Material X and uses Material X in the production of Good B. Material X qualifies as an originating material because it satisfies the applicable regional value-content requirement. Producer A designates Material A as an intermediate material.

Producer A uses Material X in the production of Material Y, which is also used in the production of Good B. Material Y is also subject to a regional value-content requirement. Under the proviso set out in section 7(4), Producer A cannot designate Material Y as an intermediate material, even if Material Y satisfies the applicable regional value-content requirement, because Material X was already designated by Producer A as an intermediate material.

Producer X, who is located in NAFTA country X, uses non-originating materials in the production of self-produced materials A, B, and C. None of the self-produced materials are used in the production of any of the other self-produced materials.

Producer X uses the self-produced materials in the production of Good O, which is exported to NAFTA country Y. Materials A, B and C qualify as originating materials because they satisfy the applicable regional value-content requirements.

Because none of the self-produced materials are used in the production of any of the other self-produced materials, then even though each self-produced material is subject to a regional value-content requirement, Producer X may, under section 7(4), designate all of the self-produced materials as intermediate materials. The proviso set out in section 7(4) only applies where self-produced materials are used in the production of other self-produced materials and both are subject to a regional value-content requirement.

The following are examples of accessories, spare parts or tools that are delivered with a good and form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts or tools:

Producer A, located in a NAFTA country, produces Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement. The producer chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method. Producer A buys Material X from Producer B, located in a NAFTA country, and uses it in the production of Good A. Producer A provides to Producer B, at no charge, tools to be used in the production of Material X. The tools have a value of $100 which is expensed in the current year by Producer A.

Material X is subject to a regional value-content requirement which Producer B chooses to calculate using the net cost method. For purposes of determining the value of non-originating materials in order to calculate the regional value content of Material X, the tools are considered to be an originating material because they are an indirect material. However, pursuant to section 7(11) they have a value of nil because the cost of the tools with respect to Material X is not recorded on the books of Producer B.

It is determined that Material X is a non-originating material. The cost of the tools that is recorded on the books of producer A is expensed in the current year. Pursuant to section 5 of Schedule VIII, the value of the tools (see section 5(1)(b)(ii) of Schedule VIII) must be included in the value of Material X by Producer A when calculating the regional value content of Good A. The cost of the tools, although recorded on the books of producer A, cannot be included as a separate cost in the net cost of Good A because it is already included in the value of Material X. The entire cost of Material X, which includes the cost of the tools, is included in the value of non-originating materials for purposes of the regional value content of Good A.

For purposes of this part,

Nuts and bolts provided for in heading 7318 are imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries and are used in the territory of a NAFTA country in the production of a light-duty automotive good referred to in section 9(1). Heading 7318 is not listed in Schedule IV so the nuts and bolts are not traced materials.

Because the nuts and bolts are not traced materials the value, under section 9(1), of the nuts and bolts is not included in the value of non-originating materials used in the light-duty automotive good even though the nuts and bolts are imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

The value, under section 9(9)(b), of the nuts and bolts is included in the net cost of the light-duty automotive good for the purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), regional value content of the motor vehicle.

A rear view mirror provided for in subheading 7009.10 is imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries and is used in the territory of a NAFTA country as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle.

Subheading 7009.10 is listed in Schedule IV. The rear view mirror is a traced material. For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), regional value content of the light-duty vehicle, the value of the mirror is included in the value of non-originating materials in accordance with sections 9(2) through (9).

Glass provided for in heading 7005 is imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries and is used in the territory of NAFTA country A in the production of a rear view mirror. The rear view mirror is a non-originating good because it fails to satisfy the applicable change in tariff classification.

That rear view mirror is exported to NAFTA country B where it is used as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle. Even though the rear view mirror is a non-originating material and is provided for in a tariff item listed in Schedule IV, it is not a traced material because it was not imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of a light-duty vehicle in which the rear view mirror is incorporated, the value of the rear view mirror, under section 9(1), is not included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle.

Even though the glass provided for in heading 7005 that was used in the production of the rear view mirror and incorporated into the light-duty vehicle was imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, the glass is not a traced material because heading 7005 is not listed in Schedule IV. For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle that incorporates the glass, the value of the glass is not included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle. The value of the rear view mirror would be included in the net cost of the light-duty vehicle, but the value of the imported glass would not be separately included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle.

An electric motor provided for in subheading 8501.10 is imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries and is used in the territory of a NAFTA country in the production of a seat frame provided for in subheading 9401.90. The seat frame, with the electric motor attached, is sold to a producer of seats provided for in subheading 9401.20. The seat producer sells the seat to a producer of light-duty vehicles. The seat is to be used as original equipment in the production of that light-duty vehicle.

Subheadings 8501.10 and 9401.20 are listed in Schedule IV; subheading 9401.90 is not. The electric motor is a traced material; the seat is not a traced material because it was not imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

The seat is a light-duty automotive good referred to in section 9(1). For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the seat, the value of traced materials incorporated into it is included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the seat. The value of the electric motor is included in that value. (However, the value of the motor would not be included separately in the net cost of the seat because the value of the motor is included as part of the cost of the seat frame.)

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle, the value of the electric motor is included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle, even if the seat is an originating material.

Cast blocks, cast heads and connecting rod assemblies provided for in heading 8409 are imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries by an engine producer, who has title to them at the time of importation, and are used by the producer in the territory of NAFTA country A in the production of an engine provided for in heading 8407. After the regional value content of the engine is calculated, the engine is an originating good. It is not a traced material because it was not imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries. The engine is exported to NAFTA country B, to be used as original equipment by a producer of light-duty vehicles.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle that incorporates the engine, because heading 8409 is listed in Schedule IV and because the cast blocks, cast heads and connecting rod assemblies were imported into the territory of a NAFTA country and are incorporated into the light-duty vehicle, the value of those materials, which are traced materials, is included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle, even though the engine is an originating material.

The producer of the light-duty vehicle did not import the traced materials. However, because that producer has a statement referred to in section 9(2)(c) and that statement states the value of non-originating materials of the traced materials in accordance with section 12(2), the producer of the light-duty vehicle may, in accordance with section 9(8), use that value as the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle with respect to that engine.

Aluminum ingots provided for in subheading 7601.10 and piston assemblies provided for in heading 8409 are imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries by an engine producer and are used by that producer in the territory of NAFTA country A in the production of an engine provided for in heading 8407. The aluminum ingots are used by the producer to produce an engine block; the piston assembly is then incorporated into the engine block and the producer designates, in accordance with section 7(4), a short block provided for in heading 8409 as an intermediate material. The intermediate material qualifies as an originating material. The engine that incorporates the short block is exported to NAFTA country B and used as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle. The piston assemblies provided for in heading 8409 are traced materials; neither the engine nor the short block are traced materials because they were not imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the engine, the value of the piston assemblies is included, under section 9(9)(a)(ii), in the value of non-originating materials, even if the intermediate material is an originating material. However, the value of the aluminum ingots is not included in the value of non-originating materials because subheading 7601.10 is not listed in Schedule IV. The value of the aluminum ingots does not need to be included separately in the net cost of the engine because that value is included in the value of the intermediate material, and the total cost of the intermediate material is included in the net cost of the engine.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle that incorporates the engine (and the piston assemblies), the value of the piston assemblies incorporated into that light-duty vehicle is included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle.

An engine provided for in heading 8407 is imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries. The producer of the engine, located in the country from which the engine is imported, used in the production of the engine a piston assembly provided for in heading 8409 that was produced in a NAFTA country and is an originating good. The engine is used in the territory of a NAFTA country as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle. The engine is a traced material.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of a light-duty vehicle that incorporates that engine, the value of the engine is included in the value of non-originating materials of that light-duty vehicle. The value of the piston assembly, which was, before its exportation to outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, an originating good, shall not be deducted from the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle. Under section 18 (transshipment), the piston assembly is no longer considered to be an originating good because it was used in the production of a good outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

A wholesaler, located in City A in the territory of a NAFTA country, imports from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries rubber hoses provided for in heading 4009, which is listed in Schedule IV. The wholesaler takes title to the goods at the wholesaler's place of business in City A. The customs value of the imported goods is $500. All freight, taxes and duties associated with the good to the wholesaler's place of business total $100; the cost of the freight, included in that $100, from the place where it was received in the territory of a NAFTA country to the location of the wholesaler's place of business in City A is $25. The wholesaler sells the rubber hoses for $650 to a producer of light-duty vehicles who uses the goods in the territory of a NAFTA country as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle. The light-duty vehicle producer pays $50 to have the goods shipped from the location of the wholesaler's place of business in City A to the location at which the light-duty vehicle is produced.

The rubber hoses are traced materials and they are incorporated into a light-duty automotive good. For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle,

A wholesaler, located in City A in the territory of a NAFTA country, imports from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries rubber hose provided for in heading 4009, which is listed in Schedule IV. The wholesaler sells the good to a producer located in the territory of the NAFTA country who uses the hose to produce a power steering hose assembly, also provided for in heading 4009. The power steering hose assembly is then sold to a producer of light-duty vehicles who uses that good in the production of a light-duty vehicle. The rubber hose is a traced material; the power steering hose assembly is not a traced material because it was not imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

The wholesaler who imported the rubber hose from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries has title to it at the time of importation. The customs value of the good is $3, including freight and insurance and all other costs incurred in transporting the good to the first place at which it was received in the territory of the NAFTA country. Duties and fees and all other costs referred to in section 9(4), paid by the wholesaler with respect to the good, total an additional $1. The wholesaler sells the good to the producer of the power steering hose assemblies for $5, not including freight to the location of that producer. The power steering hose producer pays $2 to have the good delivered to the location of production. The value of the power steering hose assembly sold to the light-duty vehicle producer is $10, including freight for delivery of the goods to the location of the light-duty vehicle producer.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle:

A producer of light-duty vehicles located in City C in the territory of a NAFTA country imports from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries rubber hose provided for in heading 4009, which is listed in Schedule IV, and uses that good as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle.

The rubber hose arrives at City A in the NAFTA country, but the producer of the light-duty vehicle does not have title to the good; it is transported under bond to City B, and on its arrival in City B, the producer of the light-duty vehicle takes title to it and the good is received in the territory of a NAFTA country. The good is then transported to the location of the light-duty vehicle producer in City C.

The customs value of the imported good is $4, the transportation and other costs referred to in subparagraph 9(2)(b)(ii) to City A are $3 and to City B are $2, and the cost of duties, taxes and other fees referred to in section 9(4) is $1. The cost of transporting the good from City B to the location of the producer in City C is $1. The rubber hose is traced material.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle, the value, under section 9(2)(b), of non-originating materials of that vehicle is the customs value of the traced material and, where not included in that value, the cost of taxes, duties, fees and the cost of transporting the traced material to the place where title is taken. In this situation, the value of non-originating materials would be the customs value of the traced material, $4, the cost of duties taxes and other fees, $1, the cost of transporting the material to City A, $3, and the cost of transporting that material from City A to City B, $2, for a total of $10. The $1 cost of transporting the good from City B to the location of the producer in City C would not be included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle because a person of a NAFTA country has taken title to the traced material.

A radiator provided for in subheading 8708.91 is imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries by a producer of light-duty vehicles and is used in the territory of a NAFTA country as original equipment in the production of a light-duty vehicle.

The radiator is transported by ship from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries and arrives in the territory of the NAFTA country at City A. The radiator is not, however, unloaded at City A and although the radiator is physically present in the territory of the NAFTA country, it has not been received in the territory of a NAFTA country.

The ship sails in territorial waters from City A to City B and the radiator is unloaded there. The light-duty vehicle producer files, from City C in the same country, the entry for the radiator; the radiator enters the territory of the NAFTA country at City B.

Subheading 8708.91 is listed in Schedule IV. The radiator is a traced material.

For purposes of calculating, under section 9(1), the regional value content of the light-duty vehicle, the value of the radiator is included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle. The costs of any freight, insurance, packing and other costs incurred in transporting the radiator to City B are included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle, including the cost of transporting the radiator from City A to City B. The costs of any freight, insurance, packing and other costs that were incurred in transporting the radiator from City B to the location of the producer are not included in the value of non-originating materials of the light-duty vehicle.

Producer X, located in NAFTA country A, produces a car seat of subheading No. 9401.20 that is used in the production of a light-duty vehicle. The only non-originating material used in the production of the car seat is an electric motor of subheading No. 8501.20 that was imported by Producer X from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries. The electric motor is a material of a tariff provision listed in Schedule IV and thus is a traced material.

Producer X sells the car seat as original equipment to Producer Y, a light-duty vehicle producer, located in NAFTA country B. The car seat is an originating good because the non-originating material in the car seat (the electric motor) undergoes the applicable change in tariff classification set out in a rule that specifies only a change in tariff classification. Consequently, Producer X does not choose to calculate the regional value content of the car seat in accordance with section 12(1).

For purposes of determining, under section 9(1), the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle that incorporates the car seat, the value of the electric motor is included even though the car seat qualifies as an originating material.

Producer X provides Producer Y with a statement described in section 9(2)(c), with the value of non-originating material used in the production of the car seat determined in accordance with section 12(3), as is permitted by section 9(8). Producer Y uses that value as the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the light-duty vehicle with respect to the car seat.

This example has the same facts as in Example 12, except that the car seat does not qualify as an originating good under the rule that specifies only a change in tariff classification. Instead, it qualifies as an originating good under a rule that specifies a regional value-content requirement and a change in tariff classification. For purposes of that rule, Producer X chose to calculate the regional value content of the car seat in accordance with section 12(1) over a period set out in section 12(5)(a) and using a category set out in section 12(4)(a).

For purposes of the statement described in section 9(2)(c), Producer X determined, as is permitted under section 9(8), the value of non-originating material used in the production of the car seat in accordance with section 12(3) over a period set out in section 12(5)(a) and using a category set out in section 12(4)(e).

A cast head, produced outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, is imported into the territory of a NAFTA country and used in that country in the production of an engine that will be used as original equipment in the production of a heavy-duty vehicle. No other non-originating materials are used in the production of the engine. The cast head is a listed material; the engine is an automotive component.
