
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### Situation 2:

Use of an originating automotive component incorporating the material

The engine is an originating material acquired by the producer of the heavy-duty vehicle. For purposes of calculating the regional value content of the heavy-duty vehicle that incorporates that engine (and incorporates the rocker arm assembly), the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the heavy-duty vehicle is determined under section 10(1)(d) with respect to that engine. The producer may choose to include in the value of non-originating materials of the heavy-duty vehicle

The heavy-duty vehicle producer may only choose the first option if that producer has a statement, referred to in section 10(1)(d)(i), from the person from whom the engine was acquired. In this situation, the value of the rocker arm assembly, as determined under section 10(1)(f), is not included in the value of non-originating materials of the heavy-duty vehicle, with respect to the engine that is used in the production of the heavy-duty vehicle.

The heavy-duty vehicle producer may only choose the second option if that producer has a statement, referred to in section 10(1)(d)(ii), from the person from whom the engine was acquired. In this situation, because of the application of the equation, the value of the rocker arm assembly will be included in the amount determined under section 10(1)(d)(ii) and will, consequently, be included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the heavy-duty vehicle.

The heavy-duty vehicle producer may only choose the third option if that producer has a statement, referred to in section 10(1)(d)(iii), from the person from whom the engine was acquired. In this situation, because of the application of the equation, the value of the rocker arm assembly will be included in the amount determined under section 10(1)(d)(iii) and will, consequently, be included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the heavy-duty vehicle.
