
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### Situation 2:

Use of the listed material incorporating the material

For purposes of calculating the regional value content of the engine that incorporates that cast block (and thus incorporates the aluminum ingot), the value of non-originating materials is determined under section 10(1). Because none of sections 10(1) (a) through (f) require that a listed material that is an originating material be included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of a good, the value of the cast block is not included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of the engine or in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of an automotive component assembly or heavy-duty vehicle that incorporates the engine.

Because section 10(1)(d) does not refer to a listed material that is an originating material, the value of the non-originating aluminum ingot used in the production of the originating cast block is not included in the value of non-originating materials used in the production of any good or material that incorporates the originating cast block.

A crankshaft, produced in the territory of NAFTA country A from a forging imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, is a non-originating material. The crankshaft is sold to another producer, located in the same country, who uses it to produce an originating block assembly. That block assembly is sold to another producer, also located in the same country, who uses it to produce a finished block. The finished block is sold to a producer of engines, who is located in NAFTA country B, for use in the production of a heavy-duty vehicle. The crankshaft is a listed material; the block assembly is a sub-component, as is the finished block.
