
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### Situation:

Transhipment of a listed material

A producer, located in the territory of a NAFTA country, produces, in that country, a cast head that is an originating good. The producer exports the cast head to outside the territories of the NAFTA territories, where valves, springs, valve lifters, a camshaft and gears are added to it to create a cast head assembly. An engine producer, located in the territory of a NAFTA country, imports the cast head assembly into that country and uses it in the production of an engine that will be used as original equipment in the production of a heavy-duty vehicle. A cast head is a listed material; a cast head assembly is a sub-component.

For purposes of calculating the regional value content of the engine, the value of the imported cast head assembly is included in the value of non-originating materials under section 10(1)(c). The value of the cast head cannot be deducted from the value determined under section 10(1)(c). Although the cast head was once an originating good, under section 18 when further production was performed with respect to the cast head outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, it was no longer an originating good.

A material, produced outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, is imported into the territory of a NAFTA country and used in that country in the production of a water pump that will be used as original equipment by the same producer in the production of a heavy-duty vehicle. Although the producer, under section 7(4), designates the water pump as an intermediate material it is a non-originating material because it fails to satisfy the regional value-content requirement. A water pump is a listed material.

For purposes of calculating the regional value content of the heavy-duty vehicle, the value of non-originating materials includes, at the choice of the producer, either the total cost, determined under section 10(1)(a)(i), of the water pump or the value, determined under section 10(1)(a)(iii)(A), of the material imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

A material, produced outside the territories of the NAFTA countries, is acquired in the territory of a NAFTA country and is used in that country in the production of a water pump that will be used as original equipment in the production of a heavy-duty vehicle. The producer of the water pump and the producer of the heavy-duty vehicle are separate, unrelated producers, located in the same country. A water pump is a listed material. The producer of the water pump chose to calculate the regional value content of the water pump in accordance with section 12(1) over a period set out in section 12(5)(a) and using a category set out in section 12(4)(b). The water pump is a non-originating material because it fails to satisfy the regional value-content requirement.

For purposes of calculating the regional value content of the heavy-duty vehicle, the value of non-originating materials includes, at the choice of the producer, either the value, determined under section 10(1)(b)(i), of the water pump or, if the producer has a statement referred to in section 10(1)(b)(ii)(B), the value, determined under that section, of the material imported from outside the territories of the NAFTA countries.

The producer has a statement referred to in section 10(1)(b)(ii)(B) and chooses to use the value of non-originating material determined under that section. The statement states, as is permitted under section 10(8), the value of non-originating material used in the production of the water pump in accordance with section 12(3) over a period set out in section 12(5)(a) and using a category set out in section 12(4)(e).

A motor vehicle producer located in NAFTA country A produces vehicles that fall within a category set out in section 11(5) that is chosen by the producer. The motor vehicles are to be sold in NAFTA countries A, B and C, as well as in country D, which is not a NAFTA country. Under section 11(1), the motor vehicle producer may choose that the sum of the net costs incurred and the sum of the values of non-originating materials used by the producer be calculated over the producer's fiscal year. The producer may state in the choice the basis of the calculation as described in section 11(9)(a), in which case the calculation would be on the basis of all the motor vehicles produced regardless of where they are destined. Alternatively, the producer may state in the choice the basis of the calculation as described in section 11(9)(b). In this case, the producer would also need to state that the calculation is on the basis of

The calculation would be on the basis as described in the choice.

Producer A, located in NAFTA country A, imports unfinished bearing rings provided for in subheading 8482.99 into NAFTA country A from a non-NAFTA territory. Producer A further processes the unfinished bearing rings into finished bearing rings, which are of the same subheading. The finished bearing rings of Producer A do not satisfy an applicable change in tariff classification and therefore do not qualify as originating goods. The net cost of the finished bearing rings (per unit) is calculated as follows:

Producer A sells the finished bearing rings to Producer B who is located in NAFTA country A for $1.50 each. Producer B further processes them into bearings, and intends to export the bearings to NAFTA country B. Although the bearings satisfy the applicable change in tariff classification, the bearings are subject to a regional value-content requirement.

Producer B does not choose to accumulate costs incurred by Producer A with respect to the bearing rings used in the production of the bearings. The net cost of the bearings (per unit) is calculated as follows:

Under the net cost method, the regional value content of the bearings is

Therefore, the bearings are non-originating goods.

Producer B chooses to accumulate costs incurred by Producer A with respect to the bearing rings used in the production of the bearings. Producer A provides a statement described in section 14(2)(a) to Producer B. The net cost of the bearings (per unit) is calculated as follows:

Under the net cost method, the regional value content of the bearings is

Therefore, the bearings are originating goods.

Producer B chooses to accumulate costs incurred by Producer A with respect to the bearing rings used in the production of the bearings. Producer A provides to Producer B a statement described in section 14(2)(b) that specifies an amount equal to the net cost minus the value of non-originating materials used to produce the finished bearing rings ($1.40-$0.75 = $0.65). The net cost of the bearings (per unit) is calculated as follows:

Under the net cost method, the regional value content of the bearings is

Therefore, the bearings are originating goods.

Producer B chooses to accumulate costs incurred by Producer A with respect to the bearing rings used in the production of the bearings. Producer A provides to Producer B a statement described in section 14(2)(b) that specifies an amount equal to the value of other product costs used in the production of the finished bearing rings ($0.35). The net cost of the bearings (per unit) is calculated as follows:

Under the net cost method, the regional value content of the bearings is

Therefore, the bearings are originating goods.
