
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 181 - NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
#### Appendix to Part 181 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### Example 2:

section 14(1)

Producer A, located in NAFTA country A, imports non-originating cotton, carded or combed, provided for in heading 5203 for use in the production of cotton yarn provided for in heading 5205. Because the change from cotton, carded or combed, to cotton yarn is a change within the same chapter, the cotton does not satisfy the applicable change in tariff classification for heading 5205, which is a change from any other chapter, with certain exceptions. Therefore, the cotton yarn that Producer A produces from non-originating cotton is a non-originating good.

Producer A then sells the non-originating cotton yarn to Producer B, also located in NAFTA country A, who uses the cotton yarn in the production of woven fabric of cotton provided for in heading 5208. The change from non-originating cotton yarn to woven fabric of cotton is insufficient to satisfy the applicable change in tariff classification for heading 5208, which is a change from any heading outside headings 5208 through 5212, except from certain headings, under which various yarns, including cotton yarn provided for in heading 5205, are classified. Therefore, the woven fabric of cotton that Producer B produces from non-originating cotton yarn produced by Producer A is a non-originating good.

However, under section 14(1), if Producer B chooses to accumulate the production of Producer A, the production of Producer A would be considered to have been performed by Producer B. The rule for heading 5208, under which the cotton fabric is classified, does not exclude a change from heading 5203, under which carded or combed cotton is classified. Therefore, under section 15(1), the change from carded or combed cotton provided for in heading 5203 to the woven fabric of cotton provided for in heading 5208 would satisfy the applicable change of tariff classification for heading 5208. The woven fabric of cotton would be considered as an originating good.

Producer B, in order to choose to accumulate Producer A's production, must have a statement described in section 14(4)(a)(ii).

For purposes of this Schedule, unless otherwise stated:

For purposes of Article 402(2) of the Agreement, as implemented by section 6(2) of this appendix, the transaction value of a good shall be the price actually paid or payable for the good, determined in accordance with section 3 and adjusted in accordance with section 4.

For purposes of this Schedule, unless otherwise stated

In this Schedule,

For purposes of section 11 of this appendix, for purposes of determining the regional value content, in a fiscal year, of a motor vehicle of a class of motor vehicles or a model line produced by the producer in the territory of Canada and imported into the territory of the United States, the producer may choose to calculate the regional value content by

The categories referred to in clauses 2(a)(i)(A) and (ii)(A) are the following:

Where GM does not satisfy the requirement set out in section 2(d), the producer may choose that the regional value content be calculated in accordance with section 2 only for those motor vehicles that are acquired by GM for distribution under the GEO marque or another GM marque.

For purposes of this Schedule, a motor vehicle producer shall be deemed to be GM where, as a result of an amalgamation, reorganization, division or similar transaction, that motor vehicle producer

For purposes of this Schedule,

Where costs are not reasonably allocated to a good under section 3, those costs are reasonably allocated to the good if they are allocated,

Nothwithstanding section 3 and 7, where a producer allocates, for an internal management purpose, costs to a good that is not produced in the period in which the costs are expensed on the books of the producer (such as costs with respect to research and development, and obsolete materials), those costs shall be considered reasonably allocated if

Any cost allocation method referred to in section 3, 4 or 4.1 that is used by a producer for the purposes of this appendix shall be used throughout the producer's fiscal year.

The allocation to a good of any of the following is considered not to be reasonably allocated to the good:

Any costs allocated under section 3 on the basis of a cost allocation method that is used for an internal management purpose that is solely for the purpose of qualifying a good as an originating good are considered not to be reasonably allocated.

For the overhead to be allocated, the producer may choose one or more allocation bases that reflect a relationship between the overhead and the good based on the criterion of benefit, cause or ability to bear.

With respect to each allocation base that is chosen by the producer for allocating overhead, a cost ratio is calculated for each good produced by the producer in accordance with the following formula:

The costs with respect to which an allocation base is chosen are allocated to a good in accordance with the following formula:

Under section 6(11)(b) of this appendix, where excluded costs are included in costs to be allocated to a good, the cost ratio used to allocate that cost to the good is used to determine the amount of excluded costs to be subtracted from the costs allocated to the good.

The following is a non-exhaustive list of allocation bases that may be used by the producer to calculate cost ratios:

The following examples illustrate the application of the cost ratio method to costs included in overhead.

A producer who produces Good A and Good B may allocate overhead on the basis of direct labor hours spent to produce Good A and Good B. A total of 8,000 direct labor hours have been spent to produce Good A and Good B: 5,000 hours with respect to Good A and 3,000 hours with respect to Good B. The amount of overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

A producer who produces Good A and Good B may allocate overhead on the basis of direct labor costs incurred in the production of Good A and Good B. The total direct labor costs incurred in the production of Good A and Good B is $60,000: $50,000 with respect to Good A and $10,000 with respect to Good B. The amount of overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

A producer of Good A and Good B may allocate overhead on the basis of units produced. The total units of Good A and Good B produced is 150,000: 100,000 units of Good A and 50,000 units of Good B. The amount of overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

A producer who produces Good A and Good B may allocate machine-related overhead on the basis of machine-hours utilized in the production of Good A and Good B. The total machine-hours utilized for the production of Good A and Good B is 3,000 hours: 1,200 hours with respect to Good A and 1,800 hours with respect to Good B. The amount of machine-related overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

A producer who produces Good A and Good B may allocate overhead on the basis of sales dollars. The producer sold 2,000 units of Good A at $4,000 and 200 units of Good B at $3,000. The amount of overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

A producer who produces Good A and Good B may allocate overhead relating to utilities (heat, water and electricity) on the basis of floor space used in the production and storage of Good A and Good B. The total floor space used in the production and storage of Good A and Good B is 100,000 square feet: 40,000 square feet with respect to Good A and 60,000 square feet with respect to Good B. The amount of overhead to be allocated is $6,000,000.

For each good produced by the producer, a direct labor and direct material ratio is calculated in accordance with the following formula:

Overhead is allocated to a good in accordance with the following formula:

Under section 6(11)(b) of this appendix, where excluded costs are included in overhead to be allocated to a good, the direct labor and direct material ratio used to allocate overhead to the good is used to determine the amount of excluded costs to be subtracted from the overhead allocated to the good.

The following example illustrates the application of the direct labor and direct material ratio method used by a producer of a good to allocate overhead where the producer chooses to calculate the net cost of the good in accordance with section 6(11)(a) of this appendix.

A producer produces Good A and Good B. Overhead (O) minus excluded costs (EC) is $30 and the other relevant costs are set out in the following table:

The following example illustrates the application of the direct labor and direct material ratio method used by a producer of a good to allocate overhead where the producer chooses to calculate the net cost of the good in accordance with section 6(11)(b) of this appendix and where excluded costs are included in overhead.

A producer produces Good A and Good B. Overhead (O) is $50 (including excluded costs (EC) of $20). The other relevant costs are set out in the table of Example 1.

Direct overhead is allocated to a good on the basis of a method based on the criterion of benefit, cause or ability to bear.

Indirect overhead is allocated on the basis of a direct cost ratio.

For each good produced by the producer, a direct cost ratio is calculated in accordance with the following formula:

Indirect overhead is allocated to a good in accordance with the following formula:

Under section 6(11)(b) of this appendix, where excluded costs are included in

The following example illustrates the application of the direct cost ratio method used by a producer of a good to allocate indirect overhead where the producer chooses to calculate the net cost of the good in accordance with section 6(11)(a) of this appendix.

A producer produces Good A and Good B. Indirect overhead (IO) minus excluded costs (EC) is $30. The other relevant costs are set out in the following table:

The following example illustrates the application of the direct cost ratio method used by a producer of a good to allocate indirect overhead where the producer has chosen to calculate the net cost of the good in accordance with section 6(11)(b) of this appendix and where excluded costs are included in indirect overhead.

A producer produces Good A and Good B. The indirect overhead (IO) is $50 (including excluded costs (EC) of $20). The other relevant costs are set out in the table to Example 1.

If there is no transaction value under section 2(2) or the transaction value is unacceptable under section 2(3), and the value of the material cannot be determined under section 6 or 7, the value of the material, referred to in Article 402(9)(b) of the Agreement, as implemented by section 7(1)(b)(ii) of part IV of this appendix, shall be determined under section 9 or, when the value cannot be determined under that section, under section 10 except that, at the request of the producer, the order of application of sections 9 and 10 shall be reversed.

The greatest number of units sold at a particular price is 80; therefore, the unit price in the greatest aggregate quantity is 90.

As another illustration of this, two sales occur. In the first sale 500 units are sold at a price of 95 currency units each. In the second sale 400 units are sold at a price of 90 currency units each. In this illustration, the greatest number of units sold at a particular price is 500; therefore, the unit price in the greatest aggregate quantity is 95.

For purposes of this Schedule,

For purposes of sections 5(11) and (12) and 6(10) of this appendix, the following are the methods for determining the value of non-originating materials that are identical materials and are used in the production of a good:

The following "examples" are based on the figures set out in the table below and on the following assumptions:

By applying the FIFO method:

By applying the LIFO method:

The following table identifies the average value of non-originating Materials A as determined under the rolling average method. For purposes of this example, a new average value of non-originating Materials A is calculated after each receipt.

For purposes of this part,

The inventory management methods for determining whether fungible materials referred to in section 7(16)(a) of this appendix are originating materials are the following:

A producer of a good, or a person from whom the producer acquired the fungible materials that are used in the production of the good, may choose only one of the inventory management methods referred to in section 2, and, if the averaging method is chosen, only one averaging period in each fiscal year of that producer or person for the materials inventory.

Where the producer or person referred to in section 3 chooses the average method, the origin of fungible materials withdrawn from materials inventory is determined on the basis of the ratio of originating materials and non-originating materials in materials inventory that is calculated under sections 6 through 8.

For purposes of this part,

The inventory management methods for determining whether fungible goods referred to in section 7(16)(b) of this appendix are originating goods are the following:

An exporter of a good, or a person from whom the exporter acquired the fungible good, may choose only one of the inventory management methods referred to in section 11, including only one averaging period in the case of the average method, in each fiscal year of that exporter or person for each finished goods inventory of the exporter or person.

The following "examples" are based on the figures set out in the table below and on the following assumptions:

Good A is subject to a regional value-content requirement. Producer A is using the transaction value method to determine the regional value content of Good A.

By applying the FIFO method:

Good A is subject to a change in tariff classification requirement and the non-originating Material A used in the production of Good A does not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification. Therefore, where originating Material A is used in the production of Good A, Good A is an originating good and, where non-originating Material A is used in the production of Good A, Good A is a non-originating good.

By applying the LIFO method:

Good A is subject to an applicable regional value-content requirement. Producer A is using the transaction value method to determine the regional value content of Good A. Producer A determines the average value of non-originating Material A and the ratio of originating Material A to total value of originating Material A and non-originating Material A in the following table.

By applying the average method:

The following "examples" are based on the figures set out in the table below and on the assumption that Exporter A acquires originating Good A and non-originating Good A that are fungible goods and physically combines or mixes Good A before exporting those goods to the buyer of those goods.

By applying the FIFO method:

By applying the LIFO method:
