
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 182 - UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
#### Appendix A to Part 182 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### average base hourly wage rate

means the average hourly rate of pay based on all the hours performed on direct production work at a plant or facility, even if such workers performing that work are paid on a salary, piece-rate, or day-rate basis. This includes all hours performed by full-time, part time, temporary, and seasonal workers. The rate of pay does not include benefits, bonuses or shift-premiums, or premium pay for overtime, holidays or weekends. If a worker is paid by a third party, such as a temporary employment agency, only the wages received by the worker are included in the average base hourly wage rate calculation.

For direct production workers, the average base hourly wage rate of pay is calculated based on all their working hours. For other workers performing direct production work, the average base hourly rate is calculated based on the number of hours performing direct production work. The rate also does not include any hours worked by interns, trainees, students, or any worker that does not have an express or implied compensation agreement with the employer.

If any direct production worker or worker performing direct production work is compensated by a method other than hourly, such as a salary, piece-rate, or day-rate basis, the worker's hourly base wage rate-is calculated by converting the salary, piece-rate, or day-rate to an hourly equivalent. This hourly equivalent is then multiplied by the number of hours worked in direct production for purposes of calculating the average base hourly wage rate.
