
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 182 - UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
#### Appendix A to Part 182 - Rules of Origin Regulations
##### High wage materials.

(4)The amount that may be included for high-wage materials used in production is the net cost or the annual purchase value of materials that undergo production in a qualifying-wage-rate production plant and that are used in the production of passenger vehicles, light trucks or heavy trucks in a plant located in the territory of a USMCA country.

(5) A plant engaged in the production of vehicles or parts may be certified as a qualifying wage-rate vehicle assembly plant or a qualifying-wage-rate production plant based on the average wage paid to direct production workers at the plant for July 1 to December 31, 2020, or for July 1 to June 30, 2021. In subsequent periods, the certification of a qualifying-wage-rate production plant based on period less than 12 months is valid for the following period of the same length. The certification of a qualifying-wage-rate production plant based on a 12-month period is valid for the following 12 months.

(6) For the purpose of meeting the Labor Value Content requirement a producer may use one of the following formulas:

(7) The high wage material expenditures may be calculated as sum of the following values:

(a) The annual purchase value (APV) or net cost, depending on the formula used, of a self-produced high-wage material used in the production of a vehicle;

(b) the APV or net cost, depending on the formula used, of an imported or acquired high-wage material used in the production of a vehicle;

(c) the APV or net cost, depending on the formula used, of a high-wage material used in the production of a part or material that is used in the production of an intermediate or self-produced part that is subsequently used in the production of a vehicle; and

(d) the APV or net cost depending on the formula used of a high wage material used in the production of a part or material that is subsequently used in the production of a vehicle.

(8) It is suggested, but not required, that the vehicle producer calculate the high-wage material and labor expenditures in the order described in paragraph (7). A vehicle producer need not calculate the elements in paragraphs 7(b) to (d) if the previous element or elements is sufficient to meet the LVC requirement.

(9) The high-wage technology expenditures credit (HWTC) is based on annual vehicle producer expenditures at the corporate level in one or more USMCA countries on wages paid by the producer for research and development (R&D) or information technology (IT), calculated as a percentage of total annual vehicle producer expenditures on wages paid to direct production workers in one or more USMCA countries. Expenditures on capital or other non-wage costs for R&D or IT are not included.

(10) To determine the high-wage technology expenditures credit (HWTC), the following formula may be used:

(11) For the purposes of subsection 14(10), expenditures on wages for R&D include wage expenditures on research and development including prototype development, design, engineering, testing, or certifying operations.
