
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Subpart B - Manufacturing Drawback
##### ยง 190.26 Recordkeeping.
###### Example to paragraph (b)(4):

Synthetic rutile that is shown by appropriate analysis in the entry papers to be 91.7% pure titanium dioxide is imported and dutiable at a 5% ad valorem duty rate. The amount of imported synthetic rutile is 30,000 pounds with an entered value of $12,000. The total duty paid is $600. Titanium in the synthetic rutile is designated as the basis for a drawback claim under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b). The amount of titanium dioxide in the synthetic rutile is determined by converting the purity percentage (91.7%) to its decimal equivalent (.917) and multiplying the entered amount of synthetic rutile (30,000 pounds) by that decimal equivalent (.917 x 30,000 = 27,510 pounds of titanium dioxide contained in the 30,000 pounds of imported synthetic rutile). The titanium, based on atomic weight, represents 59.93% of the constituents in titanium dioxide. Multiplying that percentage, converted to its decimal equivalent, by the amount of titanium dioxide determines the titanium content of the imported synthetic rutile (.5993 x 27,510 pounds of titanium dioxide = 16,486.7 pounds of titanium contained in the imported synthetic rutile). Therefore, up to 16,486.7 pounds of titanium is available to be designated as the basis for drawback. As the per unit duty paid on the synthetic rutile is calculated by dividing the duty paid ($600) by the amount of imported synthetic rutile (30,000 pounds), the per unit duty is two cents of duty per pound of the imported synthetic rutile ($600 &#xF7; 30,000 = $0.02). The duty on the titanium is calculated by multiplying the amount of titanium contained in the imported synthetic rutile by two cents of duty per pound (16,486.7 x $0.02 = $329.73 duty apportioned to the titanium). The product is then multiplied by 99% to determine the maximum amount of drawback available ($329.73 x .99 = $326.44). If an exported titanium alloy ingot weighs 17,000 pounds, in which 16,000 pounds of titanium was used to make the ingot, drawback is determined by multiplying the duty per pound ($0.02) by the weight of the titanium contained in the ingot (16,000 pounds) to calculate the duty available for drawback ($0.02 x 16,000 = $320.00). Because only 99% of the duty can be claimed, drawback is determined by multiplying this available duty amount by 99% (.99 x $320.00 = $316.80). As the oxygen content of the titanium dioxide is 45% of the synthetic rutile, if oxygen is the designated merchandise on another drawback claim, 45% of the duty claimed on the synthetic rutile would be available for drawback based on the substitution of oxygen.
