
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Subpart E - Completion of Drawback Claims
##### § 190.51 Completion of drawback claims.
###### Merchandise processing fee apportionment calculation.

(2)Where a drawback claimant requests a refund of a merchandise processing fee paid pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 58c(a)(9)(A), the claimant is required to correctly apportion the fee to that imported merchandise for which drawback is claimed when calculating the amount of drawback requested on the drawback entry. This is determined as follows:

(i) Relative value ratio for each line item. The value of each line item of entered merchandise subject to a merchandise processing fee is calculated (to four decimal places) by dividing the value of the line item subject to the fee by the total value of entered merchandise subject to the fee. The result is the relative value ratio.

(ii) Merchandise processing fee apportioned to each line item. To apportion the merchandise processing fee to each line item, the relative value ratio for each line item is multiplied by the merchandise processing fee paid.

(iii) Amount of merchandise processing fee eligible for drawback per line item. The amount of merchandise processing fee apportioned to each line item is multiplied by 99 percent to calculate that portion of the fee attributable to each line item that is eligible for drawback.

(iv) Amount of merchandise processing fee eligible for drawback per unit of merchandise. To calculate the amount of a merchandise processing fee eligible for drawback per unit of merchandise, the line item amount that is eligible for drawback is divided by the number of units covered by that line item (to two decimal places).

(v) Limitation on amount of merchandise processing fee eligible for drawback for substitution claims. The amount of a merchandise processing fee eligible for drawback per unit of merchandise for drawback claims based upon substitution is subject to the limitations set forth in §§ 190.22(a)(1)(ii) (manufacturing claims) and 190.32(b) (unused merchandise claims), as applicable.
