
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

The imported merchandise or drawback products will be used to manufacture or produce articles in accordance with ยง 190.2.

Drawback law mandates the assignment of relative values when two or more products necessarily are produced concurrently in the same operation. If multiple products are produced records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained of the market value of each product at the time it is first separated in the manufacturing process.

The appearing-in basis may not be used if multiple products are produced.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained showing the extent of any loss or gain in net weight or measurement of the imported merchandise, caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors.

Stock in process does not result; or if it does result, details will be given in claims as filed, and it will not be included in the computation of the merchandise used to manufacture the finished articles on which drawback is claimed.

No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, records will be maintained to establish the value, quantity, and disposition of any waste that results from manufacturing the exported articles. If no waste results, records will be maintained to establish that fact.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. That the exported articles on which drawback is claimed were produced with the use of the imported merchandise, and

2. The quantity of imported merchandiseused in producing the exported articles.

(To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements must be available for audit by CBP during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance).

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer must show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading Procedures and Records Maintained. If those records do not establish satisfaction of all legal requirements, drawback cannot be paid.

Drawback will be claimed on the full quantity of merchandise used in producing the exported articles only if there is no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the manufacturing operation. A drawback claim may be based on the quantity of eligible merchandise that appears in the exported articles, regardless of whether there is waste, and no records of waste need be maintained. If there is valuable waste recovered from the manufacturing operation and records are kept which show the quantity and value of the waste, drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible material used to produce the exported articles less the amount of that merchandise which the value of the waste would replace.

The manufacturer or producer must:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.
