
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

Drawback law mandates the assignment of relative values when two or more products necessarily are produced concurrently in the same operation. If multiple products are produced records will be maintained of the market value of each product at the time it is first separated in the manufacturing process (when a claim covers a manufacturing period, the entire period covered by the claim is the time of separation of the products and the value per unit of product is the market value for the period (§§ 190.2, 190.22(e)). The "appearing in" basis may not be used if multiple products are produced.

Records will be maintained showing the extent of any loss or gain in net weight or measurement of the imported merchandise, caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors.

No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, records will be maintained to establish the value, quantity, and disposition of any waste that results from manufacturing the exported articles. If no waste results, records will be maintained to establish that fact.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. That the exported articles on which drawback is claimed were produced with the use of the imported merchandise; and

2. The quantity of imported merchandiseused in producing the exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer must show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading "Procedures and Records Maintained". If those records do not establish satisfaction of all legal requirements, drawback cannot be paid.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer will show: The inclusive dates of manufacture; the quantity, identity, value, and 8-digit HTSUS classification of the imported flaxseed or screenings, scalpings, chaff, or scourings used; the quantity by actual weight and value, if any, of the material removed from the foregoing by screening prior to crushing; the quantity and kind of domestic merchandise added, if any; the quantity by actual weight or gauge and value of the oil, cake, and meal obtained; and the quantity and value, if any, of the waste incurred. The quantity of imported flaxseed, screenings, scalpings, chaff, or scourings used or of material removed will not be estimated nor computed on the basis of the quantity of finished products obtained, but will be determined by actually weighing the said flaxseed, screenings, scalpings, chaff, scourings, or other material; or, at the option of the crusher, the quantities of imported materials used may be determined from CBP weights, as shown by the import entry covering such imported materials, and the Government weight certificate of analysis issued at the time of entry. The entire period covered by an abstract will be deemed the time of separation of the oil and cake covered thereby.

If the records of the manufacturer or producer do not show the quantity of oil cake used in the manufacture or production of the exported oil meal, and the quantity of oil meal obtained, the net weight of the oil meal exported will be regarded as the weight of the oil cake used in the manufacture thereof.

If various tanks are used for the storage of imported flaxseed, the mill records must establish the tank or tanks in which each lot or cargo is stored. If raw or processed oil manufactured or produced during different periods of manufacture is intermixed in storage, a record must be maintained showing the quantity, identity, and 8-digit HTSUS classification of oil so intermixed. The identity of the merchandise or articles in either instance must be in accordance with § 190.14.

Drawback will be claimed on the quantity of merchandise used in producing the exported articles only if there is no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the manufacturing operation. Drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible merchandise that appears in the exported articles, regardless of whether there is waste, and no records of waste need be maintained. If there is valuable waste recovered from the manufacturing operation and records are kept which show the quantity and value of the waste, drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible material used to produce the exported articles, less the amount of that merchandise which the value of the waste would replace.

The manufacturer or producer will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation.

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with 19, United States Code, § 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

Drawback may be allowed under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) upon the exportation of dressed, redressed, dyed, redyed, bleached, blended, or striped fur skins or fur skin articles manufactured or produced by any one, or a combination, of the foregoing processes, with the use of fur skins or fur skin articles, such as plates, mats, sacs, strips, and crosses, imported in a raw, dressed, or dyed condition, subject to the following special requirements:

Imported merchandise or drawback products (fur skins or fur skin articles) are used in the manufacture of the exported articles upon which drawback claims will be based.

Exported articles on which drawback will be claimed must be manufactured in the United States using imported merchandise or drawback products.
