
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

1. Orange juice from concentrate (reconstituted juice). Concentrated orange juice for manufacturing is reduced to a desired 11.8&#xB0; Brix by a blending process to produce orange juice from concentrate. The following optional blending processes may be used:

i. The concentrate is blended with fresh orange juice (single strength juice); or

ii. The concentrate is blended with essential oils, flavoring components, and water; or

iii. The concentrate is blended with water and is heat treated to reduce the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms.

2. Frozen concentrated orange juice. Concentrated orange juice for manufacturing is reduced to a desired degree Brix of not less than 41.8&#xB0; Brix by the following optional blending processes:

i. The concentrate is blended with fresh orange juice (single strength juice); or

ii. The concentrate is blended with essential oils and flavoring components and water.

3. Bulk concentrated orange juice. Concentrated orange juice for manufacturing is blended with essential oils and flavoring components which would enable another processor such as a dairy to prepare finished frozen concentrated orange juice or orange juice from concentrate by merely adding water to the (intermediate) bulk concentrated orange juice.

Not applicable.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. The 8-digit HTSUS classification and identity of the designated merchandise;

2. The quantity of merchandise classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as the designated merchandiseused to produce the exported articles;

3. That, within 5 years after the date of importation of the designated merchandise, the manufacturer or producer used the designated merchandise to produce articles. During the same 5-year period, the manufacturer or producer producedthe exported articles.

To obtain drawback it must be established that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements must be available for audit by CBP during business hours. No drawback is payable without proof of compliance.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer must show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading "Procedures and Records Maintained", and will show what components were blended with the concentrated orange juice for manufacturing. If those records do not establish satisfaction of all legal requirements drawback cannot be paid.

The basis of claim for drawback will be the quantity of concentrated orange juice for manufacturing used in the production of the exported articles. It is understood that when fresh orange juice is used as "cutback", it will not be included in the "pound solids" when computing the drawback due.

The manufacturer or producer will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.
