
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

Heated crude oil is charged to an atmospheric distillation tower where it is subjected to fractionation. The charge to the distillation tower consists of a single crude oil, or of commingled crudes which are fed to the tower simultaneously or after blending in a tank. During fractionation, components of different boiling ranges are separated.

Fractionation results in 17 products. In order to insure proper distribution of drawback to each of these products, the manufacturer or producer agrees to record the relative values at the time of separation. The entire period covered by an abstract is to be treated as the time of separation. The value per unit of each product will be the average market value for the abstract period.

The manufacturer or producer can vary the proportionate quantity of each product. The manufacturer or producer understands that drawback is payable on exported products only to the extent that these products could have been produced from the designated merchandise. The records of the manufacturer or producer must show that all of the products exported, for which drawback will be claimed under this general manufacturing drawback ruling could, have been produced concurrently on a practical operating basis from the designated merchandise.

The manufacturer or producer agrees to establish the amount to be designated by reference to the Industry Standards of Potential Production published in T.D. 66-16.

There are no valuable wastes as a result of the processing.

Because the manufacturer or producer keeps records on a volume basis rather than a weight basis, it is anticipated that the material balance will show a volume gain. For the same reason, it is possible that occasionally the material balance will show a volume loss. Fluctuations in type of crude used, together with the type of finished product desired make an estimate of an average volume gain meaningless. However, records will be kept to show the amount of loss or gain with respect to the production of export products.

The use of any domestic merchandise acquired in exchange for imported merchandise that meets the same kind and quality specifications contained in the Parallel Columns of this general ruling shall be treated as use of the imported merchandise.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. The identity, and 8-digit HTSUS classification of the merchandise designated;

2. The quantity of merchandise classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as the designated merchandise used to produce the exported articles.

3. That, within 5 years after importation, the manufacturer or producer used the designated merchandise to produce articles. During the same 5-year period, the manufacturer or producer produced the exported articles.

4(a). The manufacturer or producer agrees to use a 28-31 day period (monthly) abstract period for each refinery covered by this general manufacturing drawback ruling, or
