
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

(b). The manufacturer or producer agrees to use an abstract period (not to exceed 1 year) for each refinery covered by this general manufacturing drawback ruling. The manufacturer or producer certifies that if it were to file abstracts covering each manufacturing period, of not less than 28 days and not more than 31 days (monthly) within the longer period, in no such monthly abstract would the quantity of designated merchandise exceed the material introduced into the manufacturing process during that monthly period. (Select (a) or (b), and state which is selected in the application, and, if (b) is selected, specify the length of the particular abstract period chosen (not to exceed 1 year (General Instruction I.A.7.)).)

5. On each abstract of production the manufacturer or producer agrees to show the value per barrel to five decimal places.

6. The manufacturer or producer agrees to file claims in the format set forth in exhibits A through F which are attached to this general manufacturing drawback ruling. The manufacturer or producer realizes that to obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. It is understood that drawback is not payable without proof of compliance. Records will be kept in accordance with T.D. 84-49, as amended by T.D. 95-61.

It is understood that the refiner can reserve as the basis for future payment the right to drawback only on the number of barrels of raw material computed by subtracting from Line E the larger of Lines A or B, of a given Exhibit E. It is further understood that this right to future payment can be claimed only against products concurrently producible with the products listed in Column 21, in the quantities shown in Column 22 of such Exhibit E. Such residual right can be transferred to another refinery of the same refiner only when Line B of Exhibit E is larger than Line A. Unless the number of residual barrels is specifically computed, and rights thereto are expressly reserved on Exhibit E, such residual rights will be deemed waived. The procedure the manufacturer or producer must follow in preparing drawback entries claiming this residual right is illustrated in the attached sample Exhibit E-1. It is understood that claims involving residual rights must be filed only at the port where the Exhibit E reserving such right was filed.

The manufacturer or producer realizes that inventory control is of major importance. In accordance with the normal accounting procedures of the manufacturer or producer, each refinery prepares a monthly stock and yield report, which accounts for inventories, production, and disposals, from time of receipt to time of disposition. This provides an audit trail of all products.

The above-noted records will provide the required audit trail from the initial source documents to the drawback claims of the manufacturer or producer and will support adherence with the requirements discussed under the heading Procedures and Records Maintained.

The amount of raw material on which drawback may be based will be computed by multiplying the quantity of each product exported by the drawback factor for that product. The amount of raw material which may be designated as the basis for drawback on the exported products produced at a given refinery and covered by a drawback entry must not exceed the quantity of such raw material used at the refinery during the abstract period or periods from which the exported products were produced. The quantity of raw material to be designated as the basis for drawback on exported products must be at least as great as the quantity of raw material which would be required to produce the exported products in the quantities exported.

The manufacturer or producer specifically agrees that it will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its refinery and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this application;

4. Keep this application current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

The piece goods used in manufacture will be classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as the piece goods designated as the basis of claim for drawback, and are used interchangeably without change in manufacturing processes or resultant products (including, if applicable, multiple products), or wastes. Some tolerances between imported-designated piece goods and the used-exported piece goods will be permitted to accommodate variations which are normally found in piece goods. These tolerances are no greater than the tolerances generally allowed in the industry for piece goods classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as follows:

1. A 4% weight tolerance so that the piece goods used in manufacture will be not more than 4% lighter or heavier than the imported piece goods which will be designated;
