
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

T. General Statement. The refiner manufactures or produces for its own account. The refiner may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the refiner's account under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

U. Waste. No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless drawback claims are based on the "appearing in" method, records will be maintained to establish the value (or the lack of value), quantity, and disposition of any waste that results from manufacturing the exported articles. If no waste results, records to establish that fact will be maintained.

V. Loss or Gain. The refiner will maintain records showing the extent of any loss or gain in net weight or measurement of the sugar caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors.

W. [Reserved]

X. Procedures and Records Maintained.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. The identity and 8-digit HTSUS classification of the designated merchandise;

2. The quantity of merchandise classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as the designated merchandiseused to produce the exported articles; and

3. That, within 5 years of the date of importation of the designated merchandise, the refiner used the designated merchandise to produce articles. During the same 5-year period, the refiner producedthe exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

Y. General requirements. The refiner will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

1. The duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic steel used instead of the imported, duty-paid steel (or drawback products) will be interchangeable for manufacturing purposes with the duty-paid steel. To be interchangeable a steel must be able to be used in place of the substituted steel without any additional processing step in the manufacture of the article on which drawback is to be claimed.

2. Because the duty-paid steel (or drawback products) that is to be designated as the basis for drawback is dutiable according to its value, the amount of duty can vary with its size (gauge, width, or length) or composition (e.g., chrome content). If such variances occur, designation will be by "price extra," and in no case will drawback be claimed in a greater amount than that which would have accrued to that steel used in manufacture of or appearing in the exported articles. Price extra is not available for coated or plated steel, covered in paragraph 4, infra, insofar as the coating or plating is concerned.

3. If the steel is coated or plated with a base metal, in addition to meeting the requirements for uncoated or unplated steel set forth in the Parallel Columns, the base-metal coating or plating on the duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic steel used in place of the duty-paid steel (or drawback products) will have the same composition and thickness as the coating or plating on the duty-paid steel. If the coated or plated duty-paid steel is within an SAE, AISI, ASTM specification, then any duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic coated or plated steel must be covered by the same specification and grade (if two or more grades are in the specification).

The exported articles will have been manufactured in the United States using steels described in the Parallel Columns above.

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account.
