
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

The sugars are subjected to one or more of the following operations to form the desired product(s):

1. Mixing with other substances,

2. Cooking with other substances,

3. Boiling with other substances,

4. Baking with other substances,

5. Additional similar processes.

Not applicable.

No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of sugar appearing in the exported articles, records will be maintained to establish the value (or the lack of value), quantity, disposition of any waste that results from manufacturing the exported articles. If no waste results, records to establish that fact will be maintained.

The manufacturer or producer will maintain records showing the extent of any loss or gain in net weight or measurement of the sugar caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. The identity and 8-digit HTSUS classification of the designated merchandise;

2. The quantity of merchandise classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS classification as the designated merchandiseused to produce the exported articles;

3. That, within 5 years of the date of importation of the designated merchandise, the manufacturer or producer used the merchandise to produce articles. During the same 5-year period, the manufacturer or producer producedthe exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer, will show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading "Procedures and Records Maintained." If those records do not establish satisfaction of all legal requirements, drawback cannot be paid.

Drawback will be claimed on the quantity of sugar used in producing the exported articles only if there is no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the manufacturing operation. Drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible sugar that appears in the exported articles regardless of whether there is waste, and no records of waste need be maintained. If there is valuable waste recovered from the manufacturing operation and records are kept which show the quantity and value of the waste, drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible material used to produce the exported articles less the amount of that sugar which the value of the waste would replace.

The manufacturer or producer will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

Drawback may be allowed under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) upon the exportation of bleached, mercerized, printed, dyed, or redyed piece goods manufactured or produced by any one or a combination of the foregoing processes with the use of imported woven piece goods, subject to the following special requirements:

Imported merchandise or drawback products (woven piece goods) are used in the manufacture of the exported articles upon which drawback claims will be based.

Exported articles on which drawback will be claimed must be manufactured in the United States using imported merchandise or drawback products.
