
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 190 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (ยง 190.9).

The imported merchandise or drawback products will be used to manufacture or produce articles in accordance with ยง 190.2.

The piece goods used in manufacture or production under this general manufacturing drawback ruling may also be subjected to one or more finishing processes. Drawback will not be allowed under this general manufacturing drawback ruling when the process performed results only in the restoration of the merchandise to its condition at the time of importation.

Not applicable.

Rag waste may be incurred. No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, the records of the manufacturer or producer must show the quantity of rag waste, if any, its value, and its disposition. If no waste results, records will be maintained to establish that fact. In instances where rag waste occurs and it is impractical to account for the actual quantity of rag waste incurred, it may be assumed that such rag waste constituted 2% of the woven piece goods put into process. If necessary to establish the quantity of merchandise (eligible piece goods) appearing in the exported articles, such waste records will also be kept.

Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, the records of the manufacturer or producer must show the yardage lost by shrinkage or gained by stretching during manufacture, and the quantity of remnants resulting and of spoilage incurred, if any. If necessary to establish the quantity of merchandise (eligible piece goods) appearing in the exported articles, such records for shrinkage, gain, and spoilage will also be kept.

Records, which may include records kept in the normal course of business, will be maintained to establish:

1. That the exported articles on which drawback is claimed were produced with the use of the imported merchandise; and

2. The quantity of imported merchandiseused in producing the exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer must show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading "Procedures and Records Maintained". If those records do not establish satisfaction of all legal requirements, drawback cannot be paid.

The records of the manufacturer or producer must show, as to each lot of piece goods manufactured or produced for exportation with benefit of drawback, the lot number and the date or inclusive dates of manufacture or production, the quantity, identity, value, and 8-digit HTSUS classification of the imported (or drawback product) piece goods used, the condition in which imported or received (whether in the gray, bleached, dyed, or mercerized), the working allowance specified in the contract under which they are received, the process or processes applied thereto, and the quantity and description of the piece goods obtained. The records must also show the yardage lost by shrinkage or gained by stretching during manufacture or production, and the quantity of remnants resulting and of spoilage incurred.

Drawback will be claimed on the quantity of merchandise used in producing the exported articles only if there is no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the manufacturing operation. Drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible merchandise that appears in the exported articles, regardless of whether there is waste, and no records of waste need be maintained. If there is valuable waste recovered from the manufacturing operation and records are kept which show the quantity and value of the waste, drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible material used to produce the exported articles, less the amount of that merchandise which the value of the waste would replace. (If remnants and/or spoilage occur during manufacture or production, the quantity of imported merchandise used will be determined by deducting from the quantity of piece goods received and put into manufacture or production the quantity of such remnants and/or spoilage. The remaining quantity will be reduced by the quantity thereof which the value of the rag waste, if any, would replace.)

The manufacturer or producer will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix (I. General Instructions, 1 through 10), the corporate name, or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation.

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with 19 U.S.C. 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.
