
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix B to Part 190 - Sample Formats for Applications for Specific Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### See

(If you recover valuable waste and you choose to claim on the basis of the quantity of merchandise used in producing the exported articles (less any valuable waste), state that you will keep records to establish the quantity and value of the waste recovered."Basis of Claim for Drawback" section below.)

(Some processes result in another type of residual material, namely, stock in process, which affects the allowance of drawback. Stock in process may exist when residual material resulting from a manufacturing or processing operation is reintroduced into a subsequent manufacturing or processing operation; e.g., trim pieces from a cast article. The effect of stock in process on a drawback claim is that the amount of drawback for the period in which the stock in process was withdrawn from the manufacturing or processing operation (or the manufactured article, if manufacturing or processing periods are not used) is reduced by the quantity of merchandise or drawback products used to produce the stock in process if the "used in" or "used in less valuable waste" methods are used (if the "appearing in" method is used, there will be no effect on the amount of drawback), and the quantity of merchandise or drawback products used to produce the stock in process is added to the merchandise or drawback products used in the subsequent manufacturing or production period (or the subsequently produced article)).

(If stock in process occurs and claims are to be based on stock in process, the application must include a statement to that effect. The application must also include a statement that merchandise is considered to be used in manufacture at the time it was originally processed, so that the stock in process will not be included twice in the computation of the merchandise used to manufacture the finished articles on which drawback is claimed.)

(Some manufacturing processes result in an intangible loss or gain of the net weight or measurement of the merchandise used. This loss or gain is caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors. If applicable, state the approximate usual percentage or quantity of such loss or gain. Note that percentage values will be considered to be measured by weight unless otherwise specified. Loss or gain does not occur during all manufacturing processes. If loss or gain does not apply to your manufacturing process, state "Not Applicable.")

We will maintain records to establish:

1. The identity and 8-digit HTSUS subheading number of the merchandise we designate;

2. The quantity of merchandise classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number as the designated merchandisewe used to produce the exported articles;

3. That, within 5 years after the date of importation, we used the designated merchandise to produce articles. During the same 5-year period, we producedthe exported articles.

We realize that to obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Our records establishing our compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. We understand that drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

(Describe your inventory records and state how those records will meet the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations as discussed under the heading "PROCEDURES AND RECORDS MAINTAINED". To insure compliance the following areas, as applicable, should be included in your discussion:)

(Proof of time frames may be specific or inclusive, e.g., within 120 days, but specific proof is preferable. Separate storage and identification of each article or lot of merchandise usually will permit specific proof of exact dates. Proof of inclusive dates of use, production or export may be acceptable, but in such cases it is best to describe very specifically the data you intend to use to establish each legal requirement, thereby avoiding misunderstandings at the time of audit.) (If you do not describe the inventory records that you will use, you must state: "All legal requirements will be met by our inventory procedures." However, it should be noted that without a detailed description of the inventory procedures set forth in the application, a judgment as to the adequacy of such a statement cannot be made until a drawback claim is verified. Approval of this application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling merely constitutes approval of the ruling application as submitted; it does not constitute approval of the applicant's recordkeeping procedures if those procedures are solely described as meeting the legal requirements, without specifically stating how the requirements will be met. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.)

(There are three different bases that may be used to claim drawback: (1) Used in; (2) appearing in; and (3) used in less valuable waste.)

(The "used in" basis may be employed only if there is either no waste, or the waste is valueless or unrecovered. Irrecoverable or valueless waste does not reduce the amount of drawback when claims are based on the "used in" basis. Drawback is payable in the amount of 99 percent of the duties, taxes, and fees, paid on the quantity of imported material designated as the basis for the allowance of drawback on the exported articles. The designated quantity may not exceed the quantity of material actually used in the manufacture of the exported articles.) (For example, if 100 pounds of material, valued at $1.00 per pound, were used in manufacture resulting in 10 pounds of irrecoverable or valueless waste, the 10 pounds of irrecoverable or valueless waste would not reduce the drawback. In this case drawback would be payable on 99% of the duties, taxes, and fees paid on the 100 pounds of designated material used to produce the exported articles.)

(The "appearing in" basis may be used regardless of whether there is waste. If the "appearing in" basis is used, the claimant does not need to keep records of waste and its value. However, the manufacturer must establish the identity and quantity of the merchandise appearing in the exported product and provide this information. Waste reduces the amount of drawback when claims are made on the "appearing in" basis. Drawback is payable on 99 percent of the duties, taxes, and fees paid on the quantity of material designated, which may not exceed the quantity of eligible material that appears in the exported articles. "Appearing in" may not be used if multiple products are involved.)

(Based on the previous example, drawback would be payable on the 90 pounds of merchandise which actually went into the exported product (appearing in) rather than the 100 pounds used in as set forth previously.)

(The "used in less valuable waste" basis may be employed when the manufacturer recovers valuable waste, and keeps records of the quantity and value of waste from each lot of merchandise. The value of the waste reduces the amount of drawback when claims are based on the "used in less valuable waste" basis. When valuable waste is incurred, the drawback allowance on the exported article is based on the duties, taxes, and fees, paid on the quantity of merchandise used in the manufacture, as reduced by the quantity of such merchandise which the value of the waste would replace. In such a case, drawback is claimed on the quantity of eligible material actually used to produce the exported product, less the amount of such material which the value of the waste would replace. Note section 190.26(c) of the CBP Regulations.)

(Based on the previous examples, if the 10 pounds of waste had a value of $.50 per pound, then the 10 pounds of waste, having a total value of $5.00, would be equivalent in value to 5 pounds of the designated material. Thus the value of the waste would replace 5 pounds of the merchandise used, and drawback is payable on 99 percent of the duties, taxes, and fees paid on the 95 pounds of imported material designated as the basis for the allowance of drawback on the exported article rather than on the 100 pounds "used in" or the 90 pounds "appearing in" as set forth in the above examples.)

(Two methods exist for the manufacturer to show the quantity of material used or appearing in the exported article: (1) Schedule or (2) Abstract.)

(A "schedule" shows the quantity of material used in producing each unit of product. The schedule method is usually employed when a standard line of merchandise is being produced according to fixed formulas. Some schedules will show the quantity of merchandise used to manufacture or produce each article and others will show the quantity appearing in each finished article. Schedules may be prepared to show the quantity of merchandise either on the basis of percentages or by actual weights and measurements. A schedule determines the amount of material that is needed to produce a unit of product before the material is actually used in production.)

(An "abstract" is the summary of the records which shows the total quantity of merchandise used in producing all articles during the period covered by the abstract. The abstract looks at a period of time, for instance 3 months, in which the quantity of material has been used. An abstract looks back at how much material was actually used after a production period has been completed.)

(An applicant who fails to indicate a "schedule" choice must base its claims on the "abstract" method. State which Basis and Method you will use. An example of Used In by Schedule follows:)

We will claim drawback on the quantity of (specify material) used in manufacturing (exported article) according to the schedule set forth below.

(Section 190.8(f) of the CBP Regulations requires submission of the schedule with the application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling. An applicant who desires to file supplemental schedules with the drawback office whenever there is a change in the quantity or material used should state:)

We request permission to file supplemental schedules with the drawback office covering changes in the quantities of material used to produce the exported articles, or different styles or capacities of containers of such exported merchandise.

(Neither the "appearing in" basis nor the "schedule" method for claiming drawback may be used where the relative value procedure is required.)

(List the imported merchandise or drawback products.)

(Name each article to be exported. When the identity of the product is not clearly evident by its name state what the product is, e.g., a herbicide. There must be a match between each article described under the PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE AND PRODUCTION section below and each article listed here.)

(If the merchandise used under § 1313(a) is not also used under § 1313(b), the sections entitled PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE OR PRODUCTION, BY-PRODUCTS, LOSS OR GAIN, and STOCK IN PROCESS should be included here to cover merchandise used under § 1313(a). However, if the merchandise used under § 1313(a) is also used under § 1313(b) these sections need not be repeated unless they differ in some way from the § 1313(b) descriptions.)

We will maintain records to establish:

1. That the exported articles on which drawback is claimed were produced with the use of the imported merchandise, and

2. The quantity of imported merchandisewe used in producing the exported articles.

We realize that to obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after importation of the imported merchandise. We understand that drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

(This section must be completed separately from that set forth under the § 1313(b) portion of your application. The legal requirements under § 1313(a) differ from those under § 1313(b).) (Describe your inventory procedures and state how you will identify the imported merchandise from date of importation until it is incorporated in the articles to be exported. Also describe how you will identify the finished articles from the time of manufacture until shipment.)
