
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix B to Part 190 - Sample Formats for Applications for Specific Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see,see

(If an agent is to be used, the applicant must state it will comply with T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1), and § 190.9, as applicable, and that its agent will submit a letter of notification of intent to operate under the general manufacturing drawback ruling for agents (§ 190.7 and Appendix A), or an application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling (§ 190.8 and this Appendix B).)

3. Will the applicant be the exporter?

(If the applicant will not be the exporter in every case, but will be the claimant, the manufacturer must state that it will reserve the right to claim drawback with the knowledge and written consent of the exporter (19 CFR 190.82).)

(Following the items listed in the Parallel Columns, the applicant must make a statement affirming the same 8-digit HTSUS subheading numberof the merchandise. This statement should be included in the application exactly as it is stated below:)

The imported merchandise designated in our claims will be classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number as the merchandise used in producing the exported articles on which we claim drawback, such that the merchandise used would, if imported, be subject to the same rate of duty as the designated merchandise.

(In order to successfully claim drawback it is necessary to prove that the duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic merchandise, which is to be substituted for the imported merchandise, is "classifiable under the same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number." To enable CBP to rule on the proper "same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number," the application must include a detailed description of the designated imported merchandise, and of the substituted duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic merchandise used to produce the exported articles. The application must also include the Bill of Materials and/or formulas annotated with the HTSUS classification.)

(It is essential that all the characteristics which determine the identity of the merchandise are provided in the application in order to substantiate that the merchandise meets the "same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number" statutory requirement. These characteristics should clearly distinguish merchandise of different identities.

(The descriptions of the "same 8-digit HTSUS subheading number" merchandise should be included in the Parallel Columns. The left-hand column will consist of the name and 8-digit HTSUS subheading number of the imported merchandise. The right-hand column will consist of the name and 8-digit HTSUS subheading number for the duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic designated merchandise. Amendments to the ruling will be required if any changes to the HTSUS classifications occur.)

(Name each article to be exported. When the identity of the product is not clearly evident by its name state what the product is, e.g., a herbicide. There must be a match between each article described under the PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE AND PRODUCTION section below and each article listed here.)

(Drawback under § 1313(b) is not allowable except where a manufacture or production exists. Manufacture or production is defined, for drawback purposes, in § 190.2. In order to obtain drawback under § 1313(b), it is essential for the applicant to show use in manufacture or production by providing a thorough description of the manufacturing process. This description should include the name and exact condition of the merchandise listed in the Parallel Columns, a complete explanation of the processes to which it is subjected in this country, the effect of such processes, the name and exact description of the finished article, and the use for which the finished article is intended. When applicable, include equations of any chemical reactions. Including a flow chart in the description of the manufacturing process is an excellent means of illustrating how manufacture or production occurs. Flow charts can clearly illustrate if and at what point during the manufacturing process by-products and wastes are generated.)

(This section should contain a description of the process by which each item of merchandise listed in the Parallel Columns above is used to make or produce every article that is to be exported.)

(Some processes result in the separation of the merchandise into two or more products. If applicable, list all of the products. State that you will record the market value of each product or by-product at the time it is first separated in the manufacturing process. If this section is not applicable to you, then state so.)

(Drawback law mandates the assignment of relative values when two or more products are necessarily produced in the same operation. For instance, the refining of flaxseed necessarily produces linseed oil and linseed husks (animal feed), and drawback must be distributed to each product in accordance with its relative value. However, the voluntary election of a steel fabricator, for instance, to use part of a lot of imported steel to produce automobile doors, and part of the lot to produce automobile fenders, does not call for relative value distribution.)

(The relative value of a product is its value divided by the total value of all products, whether or not exported. For example, 100 gallons of drawback merchandise are used to produce 100 gallons of products, including 60 gallons of product A, 20 gallons of product B, and 20 gallons of product C. At the time of separation, the unit values of products A, B, and C are $5, $10, and $50 respectively. The relative value of product A is $300 divided by $1,500 or. The relative value of B isand of product C is, calculated in the same manner. This means thatof the drawback product payments will be distributed to product A,to product B, andto product C.)

(Drawback is allowable on exports of any of multiple products, but is not permitted on exports of valuable waste. In making this distinction between a product and valuable waste, the applicant should address the following significant elements: (1) The nature of the material of which the residue is composed; (2) the value of the residue as compared to the value of the principal manufactured product and the raw material; (3) the use to which it is put; (4) its status under the tariff laws, if imported; (5) whether it is a commodity recognized in commerce; (6) whether it must be subjected to some process to make it saleable.)

(Some processes result in the separation of fixed proportions of each product, while other processes afford the opportunity to increase or decrease the proportion of each product. An example of the latter is petroleum refining, where the refiner has the option to increase or decrease the production of one or more products relative to the others. State under this heading whether you can or cannot vary the proportionate quantity of each product.)

(The MULTIPLE PRODUCTS section consists of two sub-sections: Relative Values and Producibility. If multiple products do not result from your operation state "Not Applicable" for the entire section. If multiple products do result from your operation Relative Values will always apply. However, Producibility may or may not apply. If Producibility does not apply to your multiple product operation, then state "Not Applicable" for this sub-section.)

(Many processes result in residue materials which, for drawback purposes, are treated as waste. Describe any residue materials which you believe should be so treated. If no waste results, include a statement to that effect.)

(If waste occurs, state: (1) Whether or not it is recovered, (2) whether or not it is valueless, and (3) what you do with it. This information is required whether claims are made on a "used in" or "appearing in" basis, and regardless of the amount of waste incurred.)

(Irrecoverable wastes are those consisting of materials which are lost in the process. Valueless wastes are those which may be recovered, but have no value. These irrecoverable and valueless wastes do not reduce the drawback claim provided the claim is based on the quantity of imported material used in manufacturing. If the claim is based upon the quantity of imported merchandise appearing in the exported article, irrecoverable and valueless waste will cause a reduction in the amount of drawback.)

(Valuable wastes are those recovered wastes which have a value either for sale or for use in a different manufacturing process. However, it should be noted that this standard applies to the entire industry and is not a selection on your part. An option by you not to choose to sell or use the waste in some different operation does not make it valueless if another manufacturer can use the waste. State what you do with the waste. If you have to pay someone to get rid of it, or if you have buyers for the waste, you must state so in your application regardless of what basis you are using.)
