
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix B to Part 190 - Sample Formats for Applications for Specific Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see,see

(If an agent is to be used, the applicant must state it will comply with T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1), and § 190.9, as applicable, and that its agent will submit a letter of notification of intent to operate under the general manufacturing drawback ruling for agents (§ 190.7 and Appendix A), or an application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling (§ 190.8 and this Appendix B).)

(Regarding drawback operations conducted under § 1313(d), the data may describe the flavoring extracts, medicinal, or toilet preparations (including perfumery) manufactured with the use of domestic tax-paid alcohol; and where such alcohol is obtained or purchased.)

(Describe or list the tax-paid material)

(Name each article to be exported)

(Drawback under § 1313(d) is not allowable except where a manufacture or production exists. "Manufacture or production" is defined, for drawback purposes, in § 190.2. In order to obtain drawback under § 1313(d), it is essential for the applicant to show use in manufacture or production by providing a thorough description of the manufacturing process. Describe how the tax-paid material is processed into the export article.)

(Many processes result in residue materials which, for drawback purposes, are treated as wastes. Describe any residue materials which you believe should be so treated. If no waste results, include a statement to that effect.)

(If waste occurs, state: (1) Whether or not it is recovered, (2) whether or not it is valueless, and (3) what you do with it. This information is required whether claims are made on a "used in" or "appearing in" basis and regardless of the amount of waste incurred.)

(Irrecoverable wastes are those consisting of materials which are lost in the process. Valueless wastes are those which may be recovered, but have no value. These irrecoverable and valueless wastes do not reduce the drawback claim provided the claim is based on the quantity of domestic tax-paid alcohol used in manufacturing. If the claim is based upon the quantity of domestic tax-paid alcohol appearing in the exported article, irrecoverable and valueless waste will cause a reduction in the amount of drawback.)

(Valuable wastes are those recovered wastes which have a value either for sale or for use in a different manufacturing process. However, it should be noted that this standard applies to the entire industry and is not a selection on your part. An option by you not to choose to sell or use the waste in some different operation, does not make it valueless if another manufacturer can use the waste. State what you do with the waste. If you have to pay someone to get rid of it, or if you have buyers for the waste, you must state so in your application regardless of what basis you are using.)
