
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix B to Part 190 - Sample Formats for Applications for Specific Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### See

(If you recover valuable waste and if you choose to claim on the basis of the quantity of domestic tax-paid alcohol used in producing the exported articles (less any valuable waste), state that you will keep records to establish the quantity and value of the waste recovered."Basis of Claim for Drawback" section below.)

(Some processes result in another type of residual material, namely, stock in process, which affects the allowance of drawback. Stock in process may exist when residual material resulting from a manufacturing or processing operation is reintroduced into a subsequent manufacturing or processing operation; e.g., trim pieces from a cast article. The effect of stock in process on a drawback claim is that the amount of drawback for the period in which the stock in process was withdrawn from the manufacturing or processing operation (or the manufactured article, if manufacturing or processing periods are not used) is reduced by the quantity of merchandise or drawback products used to produce the stock in process if the "used in" or "used in less valuable waste" methods are used (if the "appearing in" method is used, there will be no effect on the amount of drawback), and the quantity of merchandise or drawback products used to produce the stock in process is added to the merchandise or drawback products used in the subsequent manufacturing or production period (or the subsequently produced article)).

(If stock in process occurs and claims are to be based on stock in process, the application must include a statement to that effect. The application must also include a statement that the domestic tax-paid alcohol is considered to be used in manufacture at the time it was originally processed, so that the stock in process will not be included twice in the computation of the domestic tax-paid alcohol used to manufacture the finished articles on which drawback is claimed.)

(Some manufacturing processes result in an intangible loss or gain of the net weight or measurement of the merchandise used. This loss or gain is caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors. If applicable, state the approximate usual percentage or quantity of such loss or gain. Note that percentage values will be considered to be measured "by weight" unless otherwise specified. Loss or gain does not occur during all manufacturing processes. If loss or gain does not apply to your manufacturing process, state "Not Applicable.")

We will maintain records to establish:

1. That the exported articles on which drawback is claimed were produced with the use of a particular lot (or lots) of domestic tax-paid alcohol, and

2. The quantity of domestic tax-paid alcoholwe used in producing the exported articles.

We realize that to obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the tax has been paid on the domestic alcohol. Our records establishing our compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by CBP during business hours. We understand that drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

(Describe your inventory records and state how those records will meet the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(d) and part 190 of the CBP Regulations as discussed under the heading PROCEDURES AND RECORDS MAINTAINED. To help ensure compliance the following areas should be included in your discussion:)

(There are three different bases that may be used to claim drawback: (1) Used in; (2) appearing in; and (3) used in less valuable waste.)

(The "used in" basis may be employed only if there is either no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the operation. Irrecoverable or valueless waste does not reduce the amount of drawback when claims are based on the "used in" basis. Drawback is payable in the amount of 100% of the tax paid on the quantity of domestic alcohol used in the manufacture of flavoring extracts and medicinal or toilet preparation (including perfumery).)

(For example, if 100 gallons of alcohol, valued at $1.00 per gallon, were used in manufacture resulting in 10 gallons of irrecoverable or valueless waste, the 10 gallons of irrecoverable or valueless waste would not reduce the drawback. In this case drawback would be payable on 100% of the tax paid on the 100 gallons of domestic alcohol used to produce the exported articles.)

The "appearing in" basis may be used regardless of whether there is waste. If the "appearing in" basis is used, the claimant does not need to keep records of waste and its value. However, the manufacturer must establish the identity and quantity of the merchandise appearing in the exported product and provide this information. Waste reduces the amount of drawback when claims are made on the "appearing in" basis. Drawback is payable on 100% of the tax paid on the quantity of domestic alcohol which appears in the exported articles.

(Based on the previous example, drawback would be payable on the 90 gallons of domestic alcohol which actually went into the exported product (appearing in) rather than the 100 gallons used in as set forth previously.)

(The "used in less valuable waste" basis may be employed when the manufacturer recovers valuable waste, and keeps records of the quantity and value of waste from each lot of domestic tax-paid alcohol. The value of the waste reduces the amount of drawback when claims are based on the "used in less valuable waste" basis. When valuable waste is incurred, the drawback allowance on the exported article is based on the quantity of tax-paid alcohol used to manufacture the exported articles, as reduced by the quantity of such alcohol which the value of the waste would replace.)

(Based on the previous examples, if the 10 gallons of waste had a value of $.50 per gallon, then the 10 gallons of waste, having a total value of $5.00, would be equivalent in value to 5 gallons of the tax-paid alcohol. Thus the value of the waste would replace 5 gallons of the alcohol used, and drawback is payable on 100% of the tax paid on 95 gallons of alcohol rather than on the 100 gallons "used in" or the 90 gallons "appearing in" as set forth in the above examples.)

(Two methods exist for the manufacturer to show the quantity of material used or appearing in the exported article: (1) Schedule or (2) Abstract.)

(A "schedule" shows the quantity of material used in producing each unit of product. The schedule method is usually employed when a standard line of merchandise is being produced according to fixed formulas. Some schedules will show the quantity of merchandise used to manufacture or produce each article and others will show the quantity appearing in each finished article. Schedules may be prepared to show the quantity of merchandise either on the basis of percentages or by actual weights and measurements. A schedule determines the amount that will be needed to produce a unit of product before the material is actually used in production.)

(An "abstract" is the summary of the records which shows the total quantity used in producing all products during the period covered by the abstract. The abstract looks at a period of time, for instance 3 months, in which the quantity of material has been used. An abstract looks back at how much material was actually used after a production period has been completed.)

(An applicant who fails to indicate the "schedule" choice must base its claims on the "abstract" method. State which Basis and Method you will use. An example of Used In by schedule follows:)

We will claim drawback on the quantity of (specify material) used in manufacturing (exported article) according to the schedule set forth below.

(Section 190.8(f) of the CBP Regulations requires submission of the schedule with the application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling. An applicant who desires to file supplemental schedules with the drawback office whenever there is a change in the quantity or material used should state:)

We request permission to file supplemental schedules with the drawback office covering changes in the quantities of material used to produce the exported articles, or different styles or capacities of containers of such exported merchandise.

(Neither the "appearing in" basis nor the "schedule" method for claiming drawback may be used where the relative value procedure is required.)

The Applicant specifically agrees that it will:

1. Operate in full conformance with the terms of this application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of liquidation of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this application;

4. Keep this application current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the number or locations of its offices or factories, the corporate name, the persons who will sign drawback documents, the basis of claim used for calculating drawback, the decision to use or not to use an agent under ยง 190.9 or the identity of an agent under that section, the drawback office where claims will be filed under the ruling, or the corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep this application current by reporting promptly to CBP Headquarters, all other changes affecting information contained in this application;

6. Keep a copy of this application and the letter of approval by CBP Headquarters on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this application and that letter of approval; and

7. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 190 of the CBP Regulations and this application and letter of approval.

I declare that I have read this application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling; that I know the averments and agreements contained herein are true and correct; and that my signature on this ____ day of ________ 20 ____, makes this application binding on

U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Entry Process and Duty Refunds Branch, Commercial and Trade Facilitation Division, Regulations and Rulings, Office of Trade, 90 K Street NE-10th Floor (Mail Stop 1177), Washington, DC 20229-1177.

Dear Sir or Madam: We, (Applicant's Name), a (State, e.g., Delaware) corporation (or other described entity) submit this application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling that our manufacturing operations qualify for drawback under title 19, United States Code, section 1313(g), and part 190 of the CBP Regulations. We request that CBP authorize drawback on the basis of this application.
