
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 190 - MODERNIZED DRAWBACK
#### Appendix B to Part 190 - Sample Formats for Applications for Specific Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### see,see

(If an agent is to be used, the applicant must state it will comply with T.D.s 55027(2) and 55207(1), and ยง 190.9, as applicable, and that its agent will submit a letter of notification of intent to operate under the general manufacturing drawback ruling for agents (ยง 190.7 and Appendix A), or an application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling (ยง 190.8 and this Appendix B).)

3. Will the applicant be the drawback claimant? (State how the vessel will qualify for drawback under 19 U.S.C. 1313(g). Who is the foreign person or government for whom the vessel is being made or equipped?) (There must be included under this heading the following statement:

We are particularly aware of the terms of ยง 190.76(a)(1), and subpart M of part 190 of the CBP Regulations, and will comply with these sections where appropriate.)

(Describe the imported merchandise or drawback products.)

(Name the vessel or vessels to be made with imported merchandise or drawback products.)

(Provide a clear and concise description of the process of construction and equipment involved. The description should trace the flow of materials through the manufacturing process for the purpose of establishing physical identification of the imported merchandise or drawback products and of the articles resulting from the processing.)

(Many processes result in residue materials which, for drawback purposes, are treated as wastes. Describe any residue materials which you believe should be so treated. If no waste results, include a statement to that effect.)

(If waste occurs, state: (1) Whether or not it is recovered, (2) whether or not it is valueless, and (3) what you do with it. This information is required whether claims are made on a "used in" or "appearing in" basis and regardless of the amount of waste incurred.)

(Irrecoverable wastes are those consisting of materials which are lost in the process. Valueless wastes are those which may be recovered, but have no value. These irrecoverable and valueless wastes do not reduce the drawback claim provided the claim is based on the quantity of imported material used in manufacturing. If the claim is based upon the quantity of imported merchandise appearing in the exported article, irrecoverable and valueless waste will cause a reduction in the amount of drawback.)

(Valuable wastes are those recovered wastes which have a value either for sale or for use in a different manufacturing process. However, it should be noted that this standard applies to the entire industry and is not a selection on your part. An option by you not to choose to sell or use the waste in some different operation does not make it valueless if another manufacturer can use the waste. State what you do with the waste. If you have to pay someone to get rid of it, or if you have buyers for the waste, you must state so in your application regardless of what basis you are using.)
