
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 191 - DRAWBACK
#### Appendix A to Part 191 - General Manufacturing Drawback Rulings
##### i.e.,

2. A tolerance of 4% in the aggregate thread count per square inch so that the piece goods used in manufacture will have an aggregate thread count within 4%, more or less of the aggregate thread count of the imported piece goods which will be designated. In each case, the average yarn number of the domestic piece goods will be the same or greater than the average yarn number of the imported piece goods designated, and in each case, the substitution and tolerance will be employed only within the same family of fabrics,print cloth for print cloth, gingham for gingham, greige for greige, dyed for dyed, bleached for bleached, etc. The piece goods used in manufacture of the exported articles will be designated as containing the identical percentage of identical fibers as the piece goods designated as the basis for allowance of drawback; for example, piece goods containing 65% cotton and 35% dacron will be designated against the use of piece goods shown to contain 65% cotton and 35% dacron. The actual fiber composition may vary slightly from that described on the invoice or other acceptance of the fabric as having the composition described on documents in accordance with trade practices. The substituted piece goods used in the manufacture of articles for exportation with drawback will be so similar in quality to the imported piece goods designated for the basis of allowance of drawback, that the piece goods used, if imported, would have been subject to the same or greater amount of duty as was paid on the imported designated piece goods. Differences in value resulting from factors other than quality, as for example, price fluctuations, will not preclude an allowance of drawback.

Finished piece goods.

The manufacturer or producer manufactures or produces for its own account. The manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the account of the manufacturer or producer under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.'s. 55027(2) and 55207(1) (see ยง 191.9 of this part).

Piece goods are subject to any one of the following finishing productions:

1. Bleaching,

2. Mercerizing,

3. Dyeing,

4. Printing,

5. A combination of the above, or

6. Any additional finishing processes.

Not applicable.

Rag waste may be incurred. No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, the records of the manufacturer or producer will show the quantity of rag waste, if any, and its value. If necessary to establish the quantity of merchandise (eligible piece goods) appearing in the exported articles, such waste records will also be kept. In instances where rag waste occurs and it is impractical to account for the actual quantity of rag waste incurred, it may be assumed that such rag waste constituted 2% of the piece goods put into the finishing processes.

Unless the claim for drawback is based on the quantity of merchandise appearing in the exported articles, the records of the manufacturer or producer will show the yardage lost by shrinkage or gained by stretching during manufacture or production, and the quantity of remnants resulting and of spoilage incurred, if any. If necessary to establish the quantity of merchandise (eligible piece goods) appearing in the exported articles, such records for shrinkage, gain and spoilage will also be kept.

The use of any domestic merchandise acquired in exchange for imported merchandise that meets the same kind and quality specifications contained in the parallel columns of this general ruling shall be treated as use of the imported merchandise if no certificate of delivery is issued covering the imported merchandise (19 U.S.C. 1313(k)) upon compliance with the applicable regulations and rulings.

Records will be maintained to establish:

1. The identity and specifications of the designated merchandise;

2. The quantity of merchandise of the same kind and quality as the designated merchandiseused to produce the exported articles;

3. That, within 3 years after receiving the designated merchandise at its factory, the manufacturer or producer used the merchandise to produce articles. During the same 3-year period, the manufacturer or producer producedthe exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by Customs during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

The inventory records of the manufacturer or producer will show how the drawback recordkeeping requirements set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) and part 191 of the CBP Regulations will be met, as discussed under the heading "Procedures And Records Maintained". If those records do not establish satisfaction of those legal requirements, drawback cannot be paid.

Drawback will be claimed on the quantity of eligible piece goods used in producing the exported articles only if there is no waste or valueless or unrecovered waste in the manufacturing operation. Drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible piece goods that appears in the exported articles, regardless of whether there is waste, and no records of waste need be maintained. If there is valuable waste recovered from the manufacturing operation and records are kept which show the quantity and value of the waste from each lot of piece goods, drawback may be claimed on the quantity of eligible piece goods used to produce the exported articles less the amount of piece goods which the value of the waste would replace.

The manufacturer or producer will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of payment of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix to be included therein (I. General Instructions, 1 through 9) or the corporate name or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 191 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

Drawback may be allowed under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) upon the exportation of hard or soft refined sugars and sirups manufactured from raw sugar, subject to the following special requirements:

A. The drawback allowance shall not exceed 99 percent of the duty paid on a quantity of raw sugar designated by the refiner which contains a quantity of sucrose not in excess of the quantity required to manufacture the exported sugar or sirup, ascertained as provided in this general rule.

B. The refined sugars and sirups shall have been manufactured with the use of duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic sugar, or combinations thereof, within 3 years after the date on which designated sugar was received by the refiner, and shall have been exported within 5 years from the date of importation of the designated sugar.

C. All granulated sugar testing by the polariscope 99.5&#xB0; and over shall be deemed hard refined sugar. All refined sugar testing by the polariscope less than 99.5&#xB0; shall be deemed soft refined sugar. All "blackstrap," "unfiltered sirup," and "final molasses" shall be deemed sirup.

D. The imported duty-paid sugar selected by the refiner as the basis for the drawback claim (designated sugar) shall be of the same kind and quality as that used in the manufacture of the exported refined sugar or sirup and shall have been used within 3 years after the date on which it was received by the refiner. Duty-paid sugar which has been used at a plant of a refiner within 3 years after the date on which it was received by such refiner may be designated as the basis for the allowance of drawback on refined sugars or sirups manufactured at another plant of the same refiner.

E. For the purpose of distributing the drawback, relative values shall be established between hard refined (granulated) sugar, soft refined (various grades) sugar, and sirups at the time of separation. The entire period covered by an abstract shall be deemed the time of separation of the sugars and sirups covered by such abstract.

F. The sucrose allowance per pound on hard refined (granulated) sugar established by an abstract, as provided for in this general ruling, shall be applied to hard refined sugar commercially known as loaf, cut loaf, cube, pressed, crushed, or powdered sugar manufactured from the granulated sugar covered by the abstract.

G. The sucrose allowance per gallon on sirup established by an abstract, as provided for in this general ruling, shall be applied to sirup further advanced in value by filtration or otherwise, unless such sirup is the subject of a special manufacturing drawback ruling.

H. As to each lot of imported or domestic sugar used in the manufacture of refined sugar or sirup on which drawback is to be claimed, the raw stock records shall show the refiner's raw lot number, the number and character of the packages, the settlement weight in pounds, and the settlement polarization. Such records covering imported sugar shall show, in addition to the foregoing, the import entry number, date of importation, name of importing carrier, country of origin, the Government weight, and the Government polarization.

I. The melt records shall show the date of melting, the number of pounds of each lot of raw sugar melted, and the full analysis at melting.

J. There shall be kept a daily record of final products boiled showing the date of the melt, the date of boiling, the magma filling serial number, the number of the vacuum pan or crystallizer filling, the date worked off, and the sirup filling serial number.

K. The sirup manufacture records shall show the date of boiling, the period of the melt, the sirup filling serial number, the number of barrels in the filling, the magma filling serial number, the quantity of sirup, its disposition in tanks or barrels and the refinery serial manufacture number.

L. The refined sugar stock records shall show the refinery serial manufacture number, the period of the melt, the date of manufacture, the grade of sugar produced, its polarization, the number and kind of packages, and the net weight. When soft sugars are manufactured, the commercial grade number and quantity of each shall be shown.

M. Each lot of hard or soft refined sugar and each lot of sirup manufactured, regardless of the character of the containers or vessels in which it is packed or stored, shall be marked immediately with the date of manufacture and the refinery manufacture number applied to it in the refinery records provided for and shown in the abstract, as provided for in this general ruling, from such records. If all the sugar or sirup contained in any lot manufactured is not intended for exportation, only such of the packages as are intended for exportation need be marked as prescribed above, provided there is filed with the drawback office immediately after such marking a statement showing the date of manufacture, the refinery manufacture number, the number of packages marked, and the quantity of sugar or sirup contained therein. No drawback shall be allowed in such case on any sugar or sirup in excess of the quantity shown on the statement as having been marked. If any packages of sugar or sirup so marked are repacked into other containers, the new containers shall be marked with the marks which appeared on the original containers and a revised statement covering such repacking and remarking shall be filed with the drawback office. If sirups from more than one lot are stored in the same tank, the refinery records shall show the refinery manufacture number and the quantity of sirup from each lot contained in such tank.

N. An abstract from the foregoing records covering manufacturing periods of not less than 1 month nor more than 3 months, unless a different period shall have been authorized, shall be filed when drawback is to be claimed on any part of the refined sugar or sirup manufactured during such period. Such abstract shall be filed by each refiner with the drawback office where drawback claims are filed on the basis of this general ruling. Such abstract shall consist of: (1) A raw stock record (accounting for Refiner's raw lot No., Import entry No., Packages No. and kind, Pounds, Polarization, By whom imported or withdrawn, Date of importation, Date of receipt by refiner, Date of melt, Importing carrier, Country of origin); (2) A melt record [number of pounds in each lot melted] (accounting for Lot No. Pounds, and Polarization degrees and pounds sucrose); (3) Sirup stock records (accounting for Date of boiling, Refinery serial manufacture No., Quantity of sirup in gallons, and Pounds sucrose contained therein); (4) Refined sugar stock record (accounting for Refinery serial production No., Date of manufacture, Hard or soft refined, Polarization and No., Net weight in pounds); (5) Recapitulation (consisting of (in pounds): (a) sucrose in process at beginning of period, (b) sucrose melted during period, (c) sucrose in process at end of period, (d) sucrose used in manufacture, and (e) sucrose contained in manufacture, in which item (a) plus item (b), minus item (c), should equal item (d)); and (6) A statement as follows:

I, ________, the ________ refiner at the ________ refinery of ________, located at ________, do solemnly and truly declare that each of the statements contained in the foregoing abstract is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and can be verified by the refinery records, which have been kept in accordance with Treasury Decision 83-59 and Appendix A of 19 CFR Part 191 and which are at all times open to the inspection of Customs.

O. The refiner shall file with each abstract a statement, showing the average market values of the products specified in the abstract and including a statement as follows:

I, ________, (Official capacity) of the ________ (Refinery), do solemnly and truly declare that the values shown above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief, and can be verified by our records.

P. At the end of each calendar month the refiner shall furnish to the drawback office a statement showing the actual sales of sirup and the average market values of refined sugars for the calendar month.

Q. The sucrose allowance to be applied to the various products based on the abstract and statement provided for in this general ruling shall be in accordance with the example set forth in Treasury Decision 83-59.

R. Certificates of manufacture and delivery under this general ruling shall be in the following form:

Certificate of manufacture and delivery-Sugar and Sirup No. ________

Certificate of manufacture and delivery of ________ manufactured by ________ under abstract No. ________ filed at the port of ________.

I, ________, the ________ of ________, located at ________, declare that the sugar (or sirup) described in the within certificate of manufacture and delivery was manufactured by said company at its refinery at ________ and is part of the sugar (or sirup) covered by abstract No. ____________, filed at the port of ________ and was delivered to ________ on or about ________, ____________, and that no other certificate of manufacture and delivery has been issued covering the above merchandise; that, subject to 19 U.S.C. 1508 and 1313(t), the refinery and other records of the company verifying the statements contained in said abstract are now and at all times hereafter will be open to inspection by Customs.

I further declare that the above-designated imported sugar (upon which the duties have been paid) was received by said company on ________ and was used in the manufacture of sugar and sirup on ________.

S. Drawback entries under this general ruling shall be on Customs Form 7551 and, in addition to the information required thereon, shall state the polarization in degrees and the sucrose in pounds for the designated imported sugar. Drawback claims under this general ruling shall include a statement as follows:

I, ________, the ________ of ________, located at ________ declare that the sugar (or sirup) described in this entry, was manufactured by said company at its refinery at ________ [or, if the claim is based on a certificate of manufacture and delivery, was manufactured by ________ at its refinery at ________ for which the accompanying certificate of manufacture and delivery was received by this company] and is part of the sugar (or sirup) covered by abstract No. ________, filed at the port of ________; that, subject to 19 U.S.C. 1508 and 1313(t), the refinery and other records of the company verifying the statements contained in said abstract are now and at all times hereafter will be open to inspection by Customs. I further declare that the above-designated imported sugar (upon which the duties have been paid) was received by said company on ________ and was used in the manufacture of sugar and sirup during the period covered by abstract No. ________, Customs No. ________, on file with the port director at ________.

I further declare that the sugar or sirup specified therein was exported as stated in the entry.

T. General Statement. The refiner manufactures or produces for its own account. The refiner may manufacture or produce articles for the account of another or another manufacturer or producer may manufacture or produce for the refiner's account under contract within the principal and agency relationship outlined in T.D.'s 55027(2) and 55207(1) (see ยง 191.9 of this part).

U. Waste. No drawback is payable on any waste which results from the manufacturing operation. Unless drawback claims are based on the "appearing in" method, records will be maintained to establish the value (or the lack of value), the quantity, and the disposition of any waste that results from manufacturing the exported articles. If no waste results, records to establish that fact will be maintained.

V. Loss or Gain. The refiner will maintain records showing the extent of any loss or gain in net weight or measurement of the sugar caused by atmospheric conditions, chemical reactions, or other factors.

W. Tradeoff. The use of any domestic merchandise acquired in exchange for imported merchandise that meets the same kind and quality requirements provided for in this general ruling shall be treated as use of the imported merchandise if no certificate of delivery is issued covering the imported merchandise (19 U.S.C. 1313(k)) upon compliance with the applicable regulations and rulings.

X. Procedures And Records Maintained. Records will be maintained to establish:

1. The identity and specifications of the designated merchandise;

2. The quantity of merchandise of the same kind and quality as the designated merchandiseused to produce the exported articles; and

3. That, within 3 years after receiving the designated merchandise at its factory, the refiner used the designated merchandise to produce articles. During the same 3-year period, the refiner producedthe exported articles.

To obtain drawback the claimant must establish that the completed articles were exported within 5 years after the importation of the imported merchandise. Records establishing compliance with these requirements will be available for audit by Customs during business hours. Drawback is not payable without proof of compliance.

Y. General requirements. The refiner will:

1. Comply fully with the terms of this general ruling when claiming drawback;

2. Open its factory and records for examination at all reasonable hours by authorized Government officers;

3. Keep its drawback related records and supporting data for at least 3 years from the date of payment of any drawback claim predicated in whole or in part upon this general ruling;

4. Keep its letter of notification of intent to operate under this general ruling current by reporting promptly to the drawback office which liquidates its claims any changes in the information required by the General Instructions of this Appendix to be included therein (I. General Instructions, 1 through 9) or the corporate name or corporate organization by succession or reincorporation;

5. Keep a copy of this general ruling on file for ready reference by employees and require all officials and employees concerned to familiarize themselves with the provisions of this general ruling; and

6. Issue instructions to insure proper compliance with title 19, United States Code, section 1313, part 191 of the CBP Regulations and this general ruling.

1. The duty-paid, duty-free, or domestic steel used instead of the imported, duty-paid steel (or drawback products) will be interchangeable for manufacturing purposes with the duty-paid steel. To be interchangeable a steel must be able to be used in place of the substituted steel without any additional processing step in the manufacture of the article on which drawback is to be claimed.
