
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### PART 200 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 200.735-103 Counseling service.

(a) The Chairman shall appoint a Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) who serves as liaison to the Office of Government Ethics and who is responsible for carrying out the Commission's ethics program. The program shall be designed to implement titles II, IV, and V of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Executive Order No. 11222, the regulations in this part, and other statutes and regulations applicable to agency ethics matters. The DAEO will be a senior Commission employee with experience demonstrating the ability to review financial disclosure reports and counsel employees with regard to resolving conflicts of interest, review the financial disclosures of Presidential nominees to the Commission prior to confirmation hearings, counsel employees with regard to ethics standards, assist supervisors in implementing the Commission's ethics program, and periodically evaluate the ethics program.

(b) The Chairman shall select an Alternate Agency Ethics Official who will serve as Deputy DAEO to whom any of the DAEO's statutory and regulatory duties may be delegated.

(c) The DAEO shall coordinate and manage the agency's ethics program. The DAEO duties shall consist of:

(1) Liaison with the Office of Government Ethics;

(2) Review of financial disclosure reports, including reports filed by Presidential nominees to the Commission;

(3) Initiation and maintenance of ethics education and training programs;

(4) Monitoring administrative actions and sanctions; and

(5) Implementation of the specific program elements listed in Office of Government Ethics regulations, 5 CFR 738.203(b).
