
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart A - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 201.4 Performance of functions.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(d) Presentation of matter that may come within the purview of other laws. Whenever any party or person, including the Commission staff, has reason to believe that (1) a matter under investigation pursuant to section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, or (2) a matter under an investigation pursuant to section 202 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2252), which is causing increased imports may come within the purview of another remedial provision of law not the basis of such investigation, including but not limited to the antidumping provisions (19 U.S.C. 1673) or the countervailing duty provisions (19 U.S.C. 1671) of the Tariff Act of 1930, then the party or person may file a suggestion of notification with the Commission that the appropriate agency be notified of such matter or circumstances, together with such information as the party or person has available. The Secretary shall promptly thereafter publish notice of the filing of such suggestion and information, and make them available for inspection and copying to the extent permitted by law. Any person may comment on the suggestion within 10 days after the publication of said notice. Thereafter, the Commission shall determine whether notification is appropriate under the law and, if so, shall notify the appropriate agency of such matters or circumstances. The Commission may at any time make such notification in the absence of a suggestion under this rule when the Commission has reason to believe, on the basis of information before it, that notification is appropriate under law.
