
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart A - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 201.6 Confidential business information.
####### Appeals from denial of confidential treatment.

(e)(1) For good cause shown, the Commission may grant an appeal from a denial by the Secretary of a request for confidential treatment of a submission. Any appeal filed shall be addressed to the Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, and shall clearly indicate that it is a confidential submission appeal. An appeal may be made within twenty (20) days of a denial or whenever the approval or denial has not been forthcoming within ten (10) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) of the receipt of a confidential treatment request, unless an extension notice in writing with the reasons therefor has been provided the person requesting confidential treatment.

(2) An appeal will be decided within twenty (20) days of its receipt (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays) unless an extension notice in writing with the reasons therefor, has been provided the person making the appeal.

(3) The justification submitted to the Commission in connection with an appeal shall be limited to that presented to the Secretary with the original or amended request. When the Secretary or Acting Secretary has denied a request on the ground that the submitter failed to provide adequate justification, any such additional justification shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration as part of an amended request. For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the twenty (20) day period for filing an appeal shall be tolled on the filing of an amended request and a new twenty (20) day period shall begin once the Secretary or Acting Secretary has denied the amended request, or the approval or denial has not been forthcoming within ten (10) days of the filing of the amended request. A denial of a request by the Secretary on the ground of inadequate justification shall not obligate a requester to furnish additional justification and shall not preclude a requester from filing an appeal with the Commission based on the justification earlier submitted to the Secretary.
