
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart D - Safeguarding Individual Privacy Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a
###### ยง 201.24 Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a records system.

(a) A request by an individual to gain access to his or her record(s) or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in a system of records maintained by the Commission shall be addressed to the Privacy Act Officer, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, and shall indicate clearly both on the envelope and in the letter that it is a Privacy Act request.

(b) In order to facilitate location of requested records, whenever possible, the request of the individual shall name the system(s) of records maintained by the Commission which he or she believes contain records pertaining to him or her, shall reasonably describe the requested records, and identify the time period in which the records were compiled.

(c) The Privacy Act Officer shall acknowledge receipt of a request within ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), and wherever practicable, indicate whether or not access can be granted. If access is not to be granted, the requestor shall be notified of the reason in writing.

(d) The Privacy Act Officer, or, the Inspector General, if such records are maintained by the Inspector General, shall ascertain whether the systems of records maintained by the Commission contain records pertaining to the individual, and whether access will be granted. Thereupon the Privacy Act Officer shall:

(1) Notify the individual whether or not the requested record is contained in any system of records maintained by the Commission; and

(2) Notify the individual of the procedures as prescribed in Secs. 201.25 and 201.26 of this part by which the individual may gain access to those records maintained by the Commission which pertain to him or her. Access to the records will be provided within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).
