
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart D - Safeguarding Individual Privacy Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a
###### ยง 201.32 Specific exemptions.

(a) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (5) and (6), records contained in the system entitled "Personnel Security Investigative Files" have been exempted from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I) and (f) of the Privacy Act. Pursuant to section 552a(k)(1) of the Privacy Act, the Commission exempts records that contain properly classified information that pertains to national defense or foreign policy and is obtained from other systems of records or another Federal agency. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to and amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is also exempted because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts or access to classified information. To the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the application of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor such a promise should an individual request access to the accounting of disclosure, or access to or amendment of the record, that would reveal the identity of a confidential source. All information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is also exempt because portions of a case file record may relate to testing and examining material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Access to or amendment of this information by the data subject would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.

(b) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2), records contained in the system entitled "Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Records" have been exempted from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I) and (f) of the Privacy Act. Pursuant to section 552a(k)(1) of the Privacy Act, the Commission exempts records that contain properly classified information pertaining to national defense or foreign policy. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary to preclude individuals' access to or amendment of such classified information under the Privacy Act. Pursuant to section 552a(k)(2) of the Privacy Act, and in order to protect the effectiveness of Inspector General investigations by preventing individuals who may be the subject of an investigation from obtaining access to the records and thus obtaining the opportunity to conceal or destroy evidence or to intimidate witnesses, the Commission exempts records insofar as they include investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes. However, if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which he is otherwise entitled under Federal law due to the maintenance of this material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
