
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart E - Opening Commission Meetings to Public Observation Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b
###### § 201.40 Records-retention requirements.

(a) The Secretary shall maintain a copy of the certification by the General Counsel required by § 201.39 for each Commission meeting of which a portion or portions are closed to the public pursuant to a vote under § 201.36(d).

(b) The Secretary shall also maintain a copy of a statement from the presiding officer of each Commission meeting or portion thereof which was closed to the public for the specific reasons enumerated in paragraphs (b) (1) through (9) of § 201.36(b) setting forth (i) The time and place of the closed meeting, or portion thereof, and (ii) A list of the persons present thereat.

(c) The Secretary shall also maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording of the proceedings of each Commission meeting or portion of a meeting, whether open to public observation or closed to the public. The Secretary shall also maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording of all deliberations conducted under paragraphs (a) (4), (5), and (6) of § 201.34 of this subpart.

(d) Where portions of a Commission meeting are closed for the reasons contained in paragraphs (b) (8)(A) or (9) of § 201.36, the Commission preserves the option to maintain detailed minutes of such portions. Such detailed minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question). All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such minutes.

(e) The retention period for the records required by paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be for a period of at least two (2) years after the particular Commission meeting, or until one (1) year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.

(f) The requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall not affect or supplant the existing duty of the Secretary to maintain permanent minutes of each Commission meeting. The Secretary shall also maintain permanent minutes of all deliberations conducted under paragraphs (a) (4), (5), and (6) of § 201.34 of this subpart.
