
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart H - Debt Collection
###### ยง 201.204 Salary offset.
####### Voluntary repayment agreements as alternative to salary offset where the Commission is the creditor agency.

(e)(1) In response to a Notice of Intent, an employee may propose to repay the debt in accordance with scheduled installment payments. Any employee who wishes to repay a debt without salary offset shall submit in writing a proposed agreement to repay the debt. The proposal shall set forth a proposed repayment schedule. Any proposal under paragraph (e) of this section must be received by the Director within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice of Intent.

(2) In response to a timely proposal by the debtor, the Director shall notify the employee whether the employee's proposed written agreement for repayment is acceptable. It is within the discretion of the Director to accept, reject, or propose to the debtor a modification of the proposed repayment agreement.

(3) If the Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is unacceptable, the employee shall have 15 calendar days from the date he or she received notice of the decision in which to file a request for a hearing.

(4) If the Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is acceptable or the debtor agrees to a modification proposed by the Director, the agreement shall be put in writing and signed by both the employee and the Director.
