
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart H - Debt Collection
###### ยง 201.204 Salary offset.
####### Coordinating salary offset with other agencies,Responsibility of the Commission as the creditor agency.

(i)-(1)(i) The Director shall be responsible for:

(A) Arranging for a hearing upon proper request by a Federal employee;

(B) Preparing the Notice of Intent to Offset consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section;

(C) Obtaining hearing officials from other agencies pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and

(D) Ensuring that each certification of debt is sent to a paying agency pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(ii) Upon completion of the procedures established in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, the Director shall submit a certified debt claim and an installment agreement or other instruction on the payment schedule, if applicable, to the employee's paying agency.

(iii) If the employee is in the process of separating from Government employment, the Commission shall submit its debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection by lump-sum deduction from the employee's final check. The paying agency shall certify the total amount of its collection and furnish a copy of the certification to the Commission and to the employee.

(iv) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Commission may, unless otherwise prohibited, request that money due and payable to the employee from the Federal Government be administratively offset to collect the debt.

(v) When an employee transfers to another paying agency, the Commission shall not repeat the procedures described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section in order to resume collecting the debt. Instead, the Commission shall review the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer and shall ensure that collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
