
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 201 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION
##### Subpart H - Debt Collection
###### ยง 201.206 Administrative offset.
####### Debtor's rights.

(c)(1) Unless the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section are used, prior to collecting any claim by administrative offset or referring such claim to another agency for collection through administrative offset, the Director shall provide the debtor with the following:

(i) Written notification of the nature and amount of the claim, the intention of the Director to collect the claim through administrative offset, and a statement of the rights of the debtor under this paragraph;

(ii) An opportunity to inspect and copy the records of the Commission not exempt from disclosure with respect to the claim;

(iii) An opportunity to have the Commission's determination of indebtedness reviewed by the Director. Any request for review by the debtor shall be in writing and be submitted to the Commission within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice of the offset. The Director may waive the time limit for requesting review for good cause shown by the debtor. The Commission shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when:

(A) An applicable statute authorizes or requires the Commission to consider waiver of the indebtedness involved, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or

(B) The debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Commission determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the Commission shall document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. In those cases where an oral hearing is not required by this section, the Commission shall nevertheless accord the debtor a "paper hearing," (i.e., the Commission will make its determination on the request for waiver or reconsideration based upon a review of the written record); and

(iv) An opportunity to enter into a written agreement for the repayment of the amount of the claim at the discretion of the Commission.

(2) If the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section are employed, the procedures described in this paragraph shall be effected after offset.
