
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 202 - INVESTIGATIONS OF COSTS OF PRODUCTION
##### ยง 202.5 Type of information to be developed at hearing.

Without excluding other factors, but with a view to assisting parties interested to present information necessary for the formulation of findings required by the statute, the Commission will expect attention in the hearing to be concentrated upon facts relating to:

(a) The degree of competition between the foreign and domestic articles in the markets of the United States.

(b) The degree of likeness or similarity between grades, classes, and price groups of the American product and the imported article.

(c) Costs of production and importation. Statements of average cost of production, domestic and, so far as known, foreign, may be submitted subject to verification and review in the Commission's investigation. Such statements should include not only the direct costs for materials and labor, commonly termed prime cost, but also indirect costs such as indirect labor, overhead factory expenses, fixed charges, the portion of general and administrative expense chargeable to manufacture, imputed interest on investment equity, and transportation to markets. For the foreign product the expenses (other than duties) incident to importation are also important. Any information which may be available bearing on the general levels of domestic and foreign costs of production, the differentials between particular elements of domestic and foreign costs, and the extent to which invoice or wholesale prices are reliable evidence of foreign costs, will be pertinent.

(d) Other significant advantages or disadvantages in competition.
