
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter I - U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - VESSELS IN FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC TRADES
#### Arrival and Entry of Vessels
##### ยง 4.14 Equipment purchases for, and repairs to, American vessels.
###### General procedures for seeking relief,Applications for Relief.

(i)-(1)Relief from the assessment of vessel repair duty will not be granted unless an Application for Relief is filed with CBP. Relief will not be granted based merely upon a claim for relief made at the time of entry under paragraph (e) of this section. If relief is sought, an Application is not required to be presented in any particular format, but it must clearly present the legal basis for granting relief, as specified in paragraph (h) of this section. An Application must also state that all repair operations performed aboard a vessel during the one-year period prior to the current submission have been declared and entered. A valid Application is required to be supported by complete evidence as detailed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (vi) and (i)(2) of this section. Except as further provided in this paragraph, the deadline for receipt of an Application and supporting evidence is 150 calendar days from the date that the vessel first arrived in the United States following foreign operations. Applications must be addressed and submitted by the vessel operator to the VRU and will be decided in that unit. The VRU may seek the advice of the Cargo Security, Carriers & Restricted Merchandise Branch, Office of Trade, in CBP Headquarters with regard to any specific item or issue which has not been addressed by clear precedent. If no Application is filed or if a submission which does not meet the minimal standards of an Application for Relief is received, the duty amount will be determined without regard to any potential claims for relief from duty assessment (see paragraph (h) of this section). Each Application for Relief must include copies of:

(i) Itemized bills, receipts, and invoices for items shown in paragraph (e) of this section. The cost of items for which a request for relief is made must be segregated from the cost of the other items listed in the vessel repair entry;

(ii) Photocopies of relevant parts of vessel logs, as well as of any classification society reports which detail damage and remedies;

(iii) A certification by the senior officer with personal knowledge of all relevant circumstances relating to casualty damage (time, place, cause, and nature of damage);

(iv) A certification by the senior officer with personal knowledge of all relevant circumstances relating to foreign repair expenditures (time, place, and nature of purchases and work performed);

(v) A certification by the master that casualty-related expenditures were necessary to ensure the safety and seaworthiness of the vessel in reaching its United States port of destination; and

(vi) Any permits or other documents filed with or issued by any United States Government agency other than CBP regarding the operation of the vessel that are relevant to the request for relief.
