
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 206 - INVESTIGATIONS RELATING TO GLOBAL AND BILATERAL SAFEGUARD ACTIONS, MARKET DISRUPTION, TRADE DIVERSION, AND REVIEW OF RELIEF ACTIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 206.8 Service, filing, and certification of documents.
####### Filing.,i.e.,

(c)Documents to be filed with the Commission must comply with applicable rules, including ยง 201.8 of this chapter. If the Commission establishes a deadline for the filing of a document, and the submitter includes confidential business information in the document, the submitter is to file and, if the submitter is a party, serve the confidential version of the document on the deadline and may file and serve the nonconfidential version of the document no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the document. The confidential version shall enclose all confidential business information in brackets and have the following warning marked on every page: "Bracketing of CBI not final for one business day after date of filing." The bracketing becomes final one business day after the date of filing of the document,at the same time as the nonconfidential version of the document is due to be filed. Until the bracketing becomes final, recipients of the document may not divulge any part of the contents of the document to anyone not subject to the administrative protective order issued in the investigation. If the submitter discovers it has failed to bracket correctly, the submitter may file a corrected version or portion of the confidential document at the same time as the nonconfidential version is filed. No changes to the document other than bracketing and deletion of confidential business information are permitted after the deadline. Failure to comply with this paragraph may result in the striking of all or a portion of a submitter's document.
