
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 206 - INVESTIGATIONS RELATING TO GLOBAL AND BILATERAL SAFEGUARD ACTIONS, MARKET DISRUPTION, TRADE DIVERSION, AND REVIEW OF RELIEF ACTIONS
##### Subpart B - Investigations Relating to Global Safeguard Actions
###### ยง 206.17 Limited disclosure of certain confidential business information under administrative protective order.
####### Breach investigation procedure.

(e)(1) The Commission shall determine whether any person has violated an administrative protective order, and may impose sanctions or other actions in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. At any time within sixty (60) days of the later of

(i) The date on which the alleged violation occurred or, as determined by the Commission, could have been discovered through the exercise of reasonable and ordinary care; or

(ii) The completion of an investigation conducted under this subpart, the Commission may commence an investigation of any breach of an administrative protective order alleged to have occurred at any time during the pendency of the investigation, including all appeals, remands, and subsequent appeals. Whenever the Commission has reason to believe that a person may have breached an administrative protective order issued pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall issue a letter informing such person that the Commission has reason to believe a breach has occurred and that the person has a reasonable opportunity to present his views on whether a breach has occurred. If subsequently the Commission determines that a breach has occurred and that further investigation is warranted, then the Secretary shall issue a letter informing such person of that determination and that the person has a reasonable opportunity to present his views on whether mitigating circumstances exist and on the appropriate sanction to be imposed, but no longer on whether a breach has occurred. Once such person has been afforded a reasonable opportunity to present his views, the Commission shall determine what sanction if any to impose.

(2) Where the sanction imposed is a private letter of reprimand, the Secretary shall expunge the sanction from the recipient's record two (2) years from the date of issuance of the sanction, provided that

(i) The recipient has not received another unexpunged sanction pursuant to this section at any time prior to the end of the two year period, and

(ii) The recipient is not the subject of an investigation for possible breach of administrative protective order under this section at the end of the two year period. Upon the completion of such a pending breach investigation without the issuance of a sanction, the original sanction shall be expunged. The Secretary shall notify a sanction recipient in the event that the sanction is expunged.
