
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 206 - INVESTIGATIONS RELATING TO GLOBAL AND BILATERAL SAFEGUARD ACTIONS, MARKET DISRUPTION, TRADE DIVERSION, AND REVIEW OF RELIEF ACTIONS
##### Subpart E - Investigations for Relief From Market Disruption
###### § 206.44a Special rules for conducting investigations under section 421(b) of the Trade Act.
####### Service of the petition.

(a)(1)(i) The Secretary shall promptly notify a petitioner when, before the establishment of a service list under § 206.17(a)(4) of this part, he or she approves an application under § 206.17(a)(2) of this part pursuant to § 206.47. When practicable, this notification shall be made by facsimile transmission. The petitioner shall then serve a copy of the petition, including all confidential business information, on the approved lead authorized applicants in accord with § 206.17(f) within 2 calendar days of the time notification is made by the Secretary.

(ii) Upon establishment and issuance of the service list, the petitioner shall serve the lead authorized applicants enumerated on the list established by the Secretary pursuant to § 206.17(a)(4) that have not been served pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section within 2 calendar days of the establishment and issuance of the Secretary's list.

(2) As the Secretary adds new authorized applicants to the service list described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall notify the petitioner and issue an amended list, and the petitioner shall serve new lead authorized applicants with a copy of the petition in the same manner as under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(3) The petitioner shall serve a copy of the non-confidential version of the petition on those persons enumerated on the list established by the Secretary pursuant to § 201.11(d) of this chapter within 2 calendar days of the establishment and issuance of the Secretary's list, and on any additional persons within 2 calendar days of receiving notification from the Secretary of an amended list.

(4) The petitioner shall attest service of the petition by filing a certificate of service with the Commission.
