
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 207.3 Service, filing, and certification of documents.
####### Filing.,i.e.,

(c)Documents to be filed with the Commission must comply with applicable rules, including ยง 201.8 of this chapter. If the Commission establishes a deadline for the filing of a document, and the submitter includes business proprietary information in the document, the submitter is to file and, if the submitter is a party, serve the business proprietary version of the document on the deadline and may file and serve the nonbusiness proprietary version of the document no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the document. The business proprietary version shall enclose all business proprietary information in brackets and have the following warning marked on every page: "Bracketing of BPI not final for one business day after date of filing." The bracketing becomes final one business day after the date of filing of the document,at the same time as the nonbusiness proprietary version of the document is due to be filed. Until the bracketing becomes final, recipients of the document may not divulge any part of the contents of the document to anyone not subject to the administrative protective order issued in the investigation. If the submitter discovers it has failed to bracket correctly, the submitter may file a corrected version or portion of the business proprietary document at the same time as the nonbusiness proprietary version is filed. No changes, including typographical changes, to the document other than bracketing and deletion of business proprietary information are permitted after the deadline unless an extension of time is granted to file an amended document pursuant to ยง 201.14(b)(2) of this chapter. Failure to comply with this paragraph may result in the striking from the record of all or a portion of a submitter's document.
