
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 207.7 Limited disclosure of certain business proprietary information under administrative protective order.
####### Application.

(2)An application under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be made by an authorized applicant on a form adopted by the Secretary or a photocopy thereof. A signed application shall be filed electronically. An application on behalf of a petitioner, a respondent, or another party must be made no later than the time that entries of appearance are due pursuant to ยง 201.11 of this chapter. In the event that two or more authorized applicants represent one interested party who is a party to the investigation, the authorized applicants must select one of their number to be lead authorized applicant. The lead authorized applicant's application must be filed no later than the time that entries of appearance are due. Provided that the application is accepted, the lead authorized applicant shall be served with business proprietary information pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. The other authorized applicants representing the same party may file their applications after the deadline for entries of appearance but at least five days before the deadline for filing posthearing briefs in the investigation, or the deadline for filing briefs in the preliminary phase of an investigation, or the deadline for filing submissions in a remanded investigation, and shall not be served with business proprietary information.
