
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 207.7 Limited disclosure of certain business proprietary information under administrative protective order.
####### Forms and determinations.

(4)(i) The Secretary may adopt, from time to time, forms for submitting requests for disclosure pursuant to an administrative protective order incorporating the terms of this rule. The Secretary shall determine whether the requirements for release of information under this rule have been satisfied. This determination shall be made concerning specific business proprietary information as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than fourteen (14) days from the filing of the information, or seven (7) days in the preliminary phase of an investigation, except if the submitter of the information objects to its release or the information is unusually voluminous or complex, in which case the determination shall be made within thirty (30) days from the filing of the information, or ten (10) days in the preliminary phase of an investigation. The Secretary shall establish a list of parties whose applications have been granted. The Secretary's determination shall be final for purposes of review by the U.S. Court of International Trade under section 777(c)(2) of the Act.

(ii) Should the Secretary determine pursuant to this section that materials sought to be protected from public disclosure by a person do not constitute business proprietary information or were not required to be served under paragraph (f) of this section, then the Secretary shall, upon request, issue an order on behalf of the Commission requiring the return of all copies of such materials served in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(iii) The Secretary shall release business proprietary information only to an authorized applicant whose application has been accepted and who presents the application along with adequate personal identification; or a person described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section who presents a copy of the statement referred to in that paragraph along with adequate personal identification.
