
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 207.7 Limited disclosure of certain business proprietary information under administrative protective order.
####### Service.

(f)(1) Any party filing written submissions which include business proprietary information to the Commission during an investigation shall at the same time serve complete copies of such submissions upon all authorized applicants specified on the list established by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and, except as provided in ยง 207.3, a nonbusiness proprietary version on all other parties. All such submissions must be accompanied by a certificate attesting that complete copies of the submission have been properly served. In the event that a submission is filed before the Secretary's list is established, the document need not be accompanied by a certificate of service, but the submission shall be served within two (2) days of the establishment of the list and a certificate of service shall then be filed.

(2) If a party's request under paragraph (g) of this section is granted, the Secretary shall accept the nondisclosable confidential business information into the record. The party shall serve the submission containing such information in accordance with the requirements of ยง 207.3(b) and paragraph (f)(1) of this section, with the information redacted from the copies served.

(3) The Secretary shall not accept for filing into the record of an investigation submissions filed without a proper certificate of service. Failure to comply with paragraph (f) of this section may result in denial of party status and such sanctions as the Commission deems appropriate. Business proprietary information in submissions must be dealt with as required by ยง 207.3(c).
