
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 207.7 Limited disclosure of certain business proprietary information under administrative protective order.
####### Request for exemption.

(2)A request for exemption from disclosure must be filed with the Secretary in writing with the reasons therefor. At the same time as the request is filed, one copy of the business proprietary information in question must be lodged with the Secretary solely for the purpose of obtaining a determination as to the request. The business proprietary information for which exemption from disclosure is sought shall remain the property of the requester, and shall not become or be incorporated into any agency record until such time as the request is granted. A request should, when possible, be filed two business days prior to the deadline, if any, for filing the document in which the information for which exemption from disclosure is sought is proposed to be included. If the request is denied, the copy of the information lodged with the Secretary shall promptly be returned to the requester. Such a request shall only be granted if the Secretary finds that such information is privileged information, classified information, or specific information of a type for which there is a clear and compelling need to withhold from disclosure. The Secretary shall promptly notify the requester as to whether the request has been approved or denied.
