
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart B - Preliminary Determinations
###### ยง 207.10 Filing of petition with the Commission.
####### Filing of the petition.

(a)Any interested party who files a petition with the administering authority pursuant to section 702(b) or section 732(b) of the Act in a case in which a Commission determination under title VII of the Act is required, shall file copies of the petition and all exhibits, appendices, and attachments thereto, pursuant to ยง 201.8 of this chapter, with the Secretary on the same day the petition is filed with the administering authority. A paper original and eight (8) true paper copies of a petition shall be filed. One copy of all exhibits, appendices, and attachments to the petition shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic format approved by the Secretary. Petitioners also must file one unbound copy of the petition (the unbound copy of the petition may be stapled or held together by means of a clip). If the petition complies with the provisions of ยง 207.11, it shall be deemed to be properly filed on the date on which the requisite number of copies of the petition is received by the Secretary, provided that, if the petition is filed with the Secretary after 12:00 noon, eastern time, the petition shall be deemed filed on the next business day. Notwithstanding ยง 207.11 of this chapter, a petitioner need not file an entry of appearance in the investigation instituted upon the filing of its petition, which shall be deemed an entry of appearance.
