
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart B - Preliminary Determinations
###### § 207.10 Filing of petition with the Commission.
####### Service of the petition.

(b)(1)(i) The Secretary shall promptly notify a petitioner when, before the establishment of a service list under § 207.7(a)(4), he or she approves an application under § 207.7(a). When practicable, this notification shall be made by facsimile transmission. A copy of the petition including all business proprietary information shall then be served by petitioner on those approved applicants in accord with § 207.3(b) within two (2) calendar days of the time notification is made by the Secretary.

(ii) The petitioner shall serve persons enumerated on the list established by the Secretary pursuant to § 207.7(a)(4) that have not been served pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section within two (2) calendar days of the establishment of the Secretary's list.

(2) A copy of the petition omitting business proprietary information shall be served by petitioner on those persons enumerated on the list established by the Secretary pursuant to § 201.11(d) of this chapter within two (2) calendar days of the establishment of the Secretary's list.

(3) Service of the petition shall be attested by filing a certificate of service with the Commission.
