
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart B - Preliminary Determinations
###### ยง 207.11 Contents of petition.

(a) The petition shall be signed by the petitioner or its duly authorized officer, attorney, or agent, and shall set forth the name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner and any such officer, attorney, or agent, and the names of all representatives of petitioner who will appear in the investigation.

(b)(1) The petition shall allege the elements necessary for the imposition of a duty under section 701(a) or section 731(a) of the Act and contain information reasonably available to the petitioner supporting the allegations.

(2) The petition shall also include the following specific information, to the extent reasonably available to the petitioner:

(i) Identification of the domestic like product(s) proposed by petitioner;

(ii) A listing of all U.S. producers of the proposed domestic like product(s), including a street address, phone number, and contact person(s) with email address(es) for each producer;

(iii) A listing of all U.S. importers of the subject merchandise, including street addresses, email addresses, and phone numbers for each importer.

(iv) Identification of each product on which the petitioner requests the Commission to seek pricing information in its questionnaires; and

(v) A listing of the main purchasers from which each petitioning firm experienced lost sales or lost revenue by reason of the subject merchandise during a period covering the three most recently completed calendar years and that portion of the current calendar year for which information is reasonably available. For each named purchaser, petitioners must provide the email address of the specific contact person, 5-digit zip code, and the information identified in the template spreadsheet specified in the Commission's Handbook on Filing Procedures. Petitioners must certify that all lost sales or lost revenue allegations identified in the petition will also be submitted electronically in the manner specified in the Commission's Handbook on Filing Procedures.

(3) The petition shall contain a certification that each item of information specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that the petition does not include was not reasonably available to the petitioner.

(4) Petitioners are also advised to refer to the administering authority's regulations concerning the contents of petitions.
