
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Final Determinations, Short Life Cycle Products
###### ยง 207.27 Short life cycle products.

(a) An eligible domestic entity may file a petition to establish a product category for short life cycle merchandise which has been the subject of two or more affirmative dumping determinations. The Commission shall within thirty (30) days of the filing of the petition determine its sufficiency. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Commission shall institute a proceeding to establish a product category and publish a notice of institution in theUpon request of an interested person filed within fifteen (15) days after publication of the notice of institution, the Commission shall conduct a hearing which shall be transcribed. The Commission's determination concerning the scope of the product category into which to classify the short life cycle merchandise identified by the petition shall be issued no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the petition.

(b) The Commission may on its own initiative and at any time modify the scope of a product category established in a proceeding pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. Ninety (90) days prior to such modification, the Commission shall publish a notice of proposed modification in theUpon request of an interested party filed within fifteen (15) days after publication of the notice of proposed modification, the Commission shall conduct a hearing which shall be transcribed. Written submissions concerning the proposed modification shall be accepted if filed no later than sixty (60) days after publication of the notice of proposed modification.
