
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Final Determinations, Short Life Cycle Products
###### § 207.30 Comment on information.

(a) In any final phase of an investigation under section 705 or section 735 of the Act, the Commission shall specify a date on which it will disclose to all parties to the investigation all information it has obtained on which the parties have not previously had an opportunity to comment. Any such information that is business proprietary information will be released to persons authorized to obtain such information pursuant to § 207.7. The date on which disclosure is made will occur after the filing of posthearing briefs pursuant to § 207.25.

(b) The parties shall have an opportunity to file comments on any information disclosed to them after they have filed their posthearing brief pursuant to § 207.25. A comment shall be filed electronically, and nine (9) true paper copies shall be submitted on the same business day. Comments shall only concern such information, and shall not exceed 15 pages of textual material, double-spaced and single-sided, when printed out on paper measuring 8.5 x 11 inches. A comment may address the accuracy, reliability, or probative value of such information by reference to information elsewhere in the record, in which case the comment shall identify where in the record such information is found. Comments containing new factual information shall be disregarded. The date on which such comments must be filed will be specified by the Commission when it specifies the time that information will be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The record shall close on the date such comments are due, except with respect to investigations subject to the provisions of section 771(7)(G)(iii) of the Act, and with respect to changes in bracketing of business proprietary information in the comments permitted by § 207.3(c).
