
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart F - Five-Year Reviews
###### ยง 207.62 Rulings on adequacy and nature of Commission review.
####### Procedures for expedited reviews.

(d)(1) If the Commission concludes that interested parties' responses to the notice of institution are inadequate, it may decide to conduct an expedited review. In that event, the Commission shall direct the Secretary to issue a notice stating that the Commission has decided to conduct an expedited review and inviting those parties to the review described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to file written comments with the Secretary on what determination the Commission should reach in the review. The date on which such comments must be filed will be specified in the notice to be issued by the Secretary. Comments containing new factual information shall be disregarded.

(2) The following parties may file the comments described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section:

(i) Any interested party that is a party to the five-year review and that has filed an adequate response to the notice of institution; and

(ii) Any party, other than an interested party, that is a party to the five-year review.

(3) Any person that is neither a party to the five-year review nor an interested party may submit a brief written statement (which shall not contain any new factual information) pertinent to the review within the time specified for the filing of written comments.

(4) The Director shall prepare and place in the record, prior to the date on which the comments described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be filed, a staff report containing information concerning the subject matter of the review. A version of the staff report containing business proprietary information shall be placed in the nonpublic record and made available to persons authorized to receive business proprietary information under ยง 207.7, and a nonbusiness proprietary version of the staff report shall be placed in the public record.
