
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart F - Five-Year Reviews
###### ยง 207.68 Final comments on information.

(a) The Commission shall specify a date after the filing of posthearing briefs on which it will disclose to all parties to the five-year review all information it has obtained on which the parties have not previously had an opportunity to comment. Any such information that is business proprietary information will be released to persons authorized to obtain such information pursuant to ยง 207.7.

(b) The parties shall have an opportunity to file comments on any information disclosed to them after they have filed their posthearing brief pursuant to ยง 207.67. Comments shall be filed electronically, and nine (9) true paper copies shall be submitted on the same business day. Comments shall only concern such information, and shall not exceed 15 pages of textual material, double spaced and single-sided, when printed out on paper measuring 8.5 x 11 inches and single-sided. A comment may address the accuracy, reliability, or probative value of such information by reference to information elsewhere in the record, in which case the comment shall identify where in the record such information is found. Comments containing new factual information shall be disregarded. The date on which such comments must be filed will be specified by the Commission when it specifies the time that information will be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The record shall close on the date such comments are due, except with respect to changes in bracketing of business proprietary information in the comments permitted by ยง 207.3(c).
