
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart G - Implementing Regulations for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
###### Procedures for Imposing Sanctions for Violation of the Provisions of a Protective Order Issued During Panel and Committee Proceedings
####### ยง 207.106 Interim measures.

(a) At any time after proceedings are initiated, the administrative law judge, upon motion, or on his or her own initiative, may issue a recommended determination to revoke the allegedly-violated protective order, to disclose information about the proceedings that would otherwise be kept confidential, or to take other appropriate interim measures.

(b) Before issuing a determination recommending interim sanctions, the administrative law judge shall afford a party against whom such measures are proposed the opportunity to oppose them. The administrative law judge shall ordinarily decide any motion under this section no more than twenty (20) days after it is filed.

(c) The Commission shall review any recommended determination regarding the imposition of interim measures within twenty (20) days from its issuance or such other time as it may order. The Commission may impose any appropriate interim sanctions.

(d) The administrative law judge may recommend to the Commission that interim measures be modified or revoked. The Commission shall rule on such recommendation within ten (10) days after its issuance or such other time as it may order.

(e) The Commission Secretary shall immediately notify the Secretariat of any interim measures that revoke or modify an outstanding protective order in an ongoing panel review. The Commission Secretary shall also immediately notify the Secretariat of any revocation or modification of an interim measure.
