
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart G - Implementing Regulations for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
###### Procedures for Imposing Sanctions for Violation of the Provisions of a Protective Order Issued During Panel and Committee Proceedings
####### ยง 207.115 Petition for review.
######## The petition and responses.

(a)(1) Any party may request a review by the Commission of the initial determination by filing with the Commission Secretary a petition for review, except that a party who has defaulted may not petition for review of any issue regarding which the party is in default.

(2) Any person who wishes to obtain judicial review pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1677f(f)(5) must first seek review by the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this regulation governing petitions for review.

(3) Any petition for review must be filed within fourteen (14) days after service of the initial determination on the charged party. The petition shall:

(i) Identify the party seeking review;

(ii) Specify the issues upon which review is sought, including a statement as to whether review is sought of the initial determination regarding the commitment of a prohibited act, or of the initial determination regarding sanctions;

(iii) Set forth a concise statement of the relevant law or material facts necessary for consideration of the stated issues; and

(iv) Present a concise argument setting forth the reasons why review is necessary or appropriate.

(4) Any issue not raised in the petition for review filed under this section will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.

(5) Any party may file a response to the petition within seven (7) days after service of the petition, except that a party who has defaulted may not file a response to any issue regarding which the party is in default.
