
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter B - Nonadjudicative Investigations
#### PART 207 - INVESTIGATIONS OF WHETHER INJURY TO DOMESTIC INDUSTRIES RESULTS FROM IMPORTS SOLD AT LESS THAN FAIR VALUE OR FROM SUBSIDIZED EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart G - Implementing Regulations for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
###### ยง 207.93 Protection of proprietary information during panel and committee proceedings.
####### Modification or revocation of protective orders.

(g)(1) Any person may file with the Commission Secretary a request that a protective order issued under this section be modified or revoked because of changed conditions of fact or law, or on grounds of the public interest. The request shall state the changes desired and include any supporting materials and arguments. The person filing the request shall serve a copy of the request upon the person to whom the protective order was issued.

(2) Any person may file a response to the request within twenty (20) days after it is filed, unless the Commission issues a notice indicating otherwise. After consideration of the request and any responses thereto, the Commission shall take such action as it deems appropriate.

(3) If a request filed under this paragraph alleges that a person is violating the terms of a protective order, the Commission may treat the request as a report of violation under ยง 207.101 of this subpart.

(4) The Commission may also modify or revoke a protective order on its own initiative.

(5) If the Commission revokes, amends or modifies a person's protective order, it shall provide to the person, the United States Secretary and all participants a copy of the Notice of Revocation, amendment or modification.
