
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart A - Rules of General Applicability
###### § 210.5 Confidential business information.
####### Confidentiality determinations in investigations and other related proceedings.

(e)(1) If an investigation is instituted or if a related proceeding is assigned to an administrative law judge, the administrative law judge shall set the ground rules for the designation, submission, and handling of information designated confidential by the submitter. When requested to do so, the administrative law judge shall decide whether information in a document addressed to the administrative law judge, or to be exchanged among the parties while the administrative law judge is presiding, is entitled to confidential treatment. The administrative law judge shall also decide, with respect to all orders, initial determinations, or other documents issued by the administrative law judge, whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment. The supplier of the information or the person seeking the information may, with leave of the administrative law judge, request an appeal to the Commission of the administrative law judge's unfavorable ruling on this issue, under § 210.24(b)(2).

(2) The Commission may continue protective orders issued by the administrative law judge, amend or revoke those orders, or issue new ones. All submissions addressed to the Commission that contain information covered by an existing protective order will be given confidential treatment. (See also § 210.72.) New information that is submitted to the Commission, designated confidential by the supplier, and not covered by an existing protective order must be submitted to the Secretary with a request for confidential treatment in accordance with § 201.6(b) and (c) of this chapter. The Secretary shall decide, in accordance with § 201.6(d) of this chapter, whether the information is entitled to confidential treatment. Appeals from the ruling of the Secretary shall be made to the Commission as provided in § 201.6(e) and (f) of this chapter. The Commission shall decide, with respect to all orders, notices, opinions, and other documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission, whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment.

(f) When the Commission or the administrative law judge issues a confidential version of an order, initial determination, opinion, or other document, the Commission, or the presiding administrative law judge if the administrative law judge has issued the confidential version, shall issue any public version of the document within 30 days, unless good cause exists to extend the deadline. An administrative law judge or the Commission may extend this time by order. Upon request by the Commission, or the administrative law judge if the administrative law judge has issued the confidential version, parties must provide support in the record for their claim of confidentiality, pursuant § 201.6 of this chapter and § 210.4 of this subpart for any proposed redactions that parties may submit to the Commission or the administrative law judge for the preparation of any public version.
