
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart B - Commencement of Preinstitution Proceedings and Investigations
###### ยง 210.8 Commencement of preinstitution proceedings.

A preinstitution proceeding is commenced by filing with the Secretary a signed original complaint and the requisite number of true copies.

(a)(1) A complaint filed under this section shall be filed in paper form with the Secretary as follows.

(i) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the nonconfidential version of the complaint shall be filed. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the complaint shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(ii) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the confidential version of the complaint shall be filed. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the complaint shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(iii) For each proposed respondent, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the complaint and one true copy of the confidential version of the complaint, if any, along with one true copy of the nonconfidential exhibits and one true copy of the confidential exhibits shall be filed, and

(iv) For the government of the foreign country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the complaint, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the complaint shall be filed.

(2) If the complainant is seeking temporary relief, the complainant must also file:

(i) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the nonconfidential version of the motion for temporary relief. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the motion shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(ii) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the confidential version of the motion for temporary relief. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the motion shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary; and

(iii) For each proposed respondent, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the motion and one true copy of the confidential version of the motion along with one true copy of the nonconfidential exhibits and one true copy of the confidential exhibits filed with the motion.
