
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart B - Commencement of Preinstitution Proceedings and Investigations
###### ยง 210.8 Commencement of preinstitution proceedings.
####### Publication of notice of filing.

(c)(1) When a complaint is filed, the Secretary to the Commission will publish a notice in theinviting comments from the public and proposed respondents on any public interest issues arising from the complaint and potential exclusion and/or cease and desist orders. In response to the notice, members of the public and proposed respondents may provide specific information regarding the public interest in a written submission not to exceed five pages, inclusive of attachments, to the Secretary to the Commission within eight (8) calendar days of publication of notice of the filing of a complaint. Comments that substantively address allegations made in the complaint will not be considered. Members of the public and proposed respondents may address how issuance of the requested exclusion order and/or a cease and desist order in this investigation could affect the public health and welfare in the United States, competitive conditions in the United States economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, or United States consumers. If a member of the public or proposed respondent files a confidential version of its submission, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission. Submissions should:

(i) Explain how the articles potentially subject to the requested remedial orders are used in the United States;

(ii) Identify any public health, safety, or welfare concerns relating to the requested remedial orders;

(iii) Identify like or directly competitive articles that complainant, its licensees, or third parties make which could replace the subject articles if they were to be excluded;

(iv) Indicate whether the complainant, its licensees, and/or third parties have the capacity to replace the volume of articles subject to the requested remedial orders in a commercially reasonable time in the United States; and

(v) State how the requested remedial orders would impact consumers.

(2) Complainant may file a reply to any submissions received under paragraph (c)(1) of this section not to exceed five pages, inclusive of attachments, to the Secretary to the Commission within three (3) calendar days following the filing of the submissions. If the complainant files a confidential version of its submission, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission.
