
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### ยง 210.16 Default.
####### Procedure for determining default.

(b)(1)(i) If a respondent has failed to respond or appear in the manner described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a party may file a motion for, or the administrative law judge may issue upon his own initiative, an order directing respondent to show cause why it should not be found in default.

(ii) If the respondent fails to make the necessary showing pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the respondent in default. An administrative law judge's decision denying a motion for a finding of default under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be in the form of an order.

(2) Any party may file a motion for issuance of, or the administrative law judge may issue on his own initiative, an initial determination finding a party in default for abuse of process under ยง 210.4(c) or failure to make or cooperate in discovery. A motion for a finding of default as a sanction for abuse of process or failure to make or cooperate in discovery shall be granted by initial determination or denied by order.

(3) If a proposed respondent has not filed a response to the complaint and notice of investigation pursuant to ยง 210.13 or ยง 210.59(c) of this chapter, the proposed respondent may file a notice of intent to default under this section. The filing of a notice of intent to default does not require the administrative law judge to issue the show-cause order of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the proposed respondent in default upon the filing of a notice of intent to default. Such default will be treated in the same manner as any default under this section.

(4) A party found in default shall be deemed to have waived its right to appear, to be served with documents, and to contest the allegations at issue in the investigation.
