
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### ยง 210.21 Termination of investigations.
####### Termination by settlement.

(b)(1) An investigation before the Commission may be terminated as to one or more respondents pursuant to section 337(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of a licensing or other settlement agreement. The motion for termination by settlement shall contain copies of the licensing or other settlement agreements, any supplemental agreements, any documents referenced in the motion or attached agreements, and a statement that there are no other agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation. If the licensing or other settlement agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of ยง 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may limit the service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney.

(2) The motion and agreement(s) shall be certified by the administrative law judge to the Commission with an initial determination if the motion for termination is granted. If the licensing or other agreement or the initial determination contains confidential business information, copies of the agreement and initial determination with confidential business information deleted shall be certified to the Commission simultaneously with the confidential versions of such documents. If the Commission's final disposition of the initial determination results in termination of the investigation in its entirety, a notice will be published in theTermination by settlement need not constitute a determination as to violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.
