
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### ยง 210.21 Termination of investigations.
####### Subsequent to institution of an investigation.

(ii)In investigations under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, a proposal to terminate by consent order shall be submitted as a motion to the administrative law judge with a stipulation that incorporates a proposed consent order. If the stipulation contains confidential business information within the meaning of ยง 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the stipulation with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. The stipulation shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section. At any time prior to commencement of the hearing, the motion may be filed by one or more respondents, and may be filed jointly with other parties to the investigation. Upon request and for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may consider such a motion during or after a hearing. The filing of the motion shall not stay proceedings before the administrative law judge unless the administrative law judge so orders. The administrative law judge shall promptly file with the Commission an initial determination regarding the motion for termination if the motion is granted. If the initial determination contains confidential business information, a copy of the initial determination with such information deleted shall be filed with the Commission simultaneously with the filing of the confidential version of the initial determination. Pending disposition by the Commission of a consent order stipulation, a party may not, absent good cause shown, withdraw from the stipulation once it has been submitted pursuant to this section.
