
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### § 210.24 Interlocutory appeals.
####### Appeals without leave of the administrative law judge.

(a)The Commission may in its discretion entertain interlocutory appeals, except as provided in § 210.64, when a ruling of the administrative law judge:

(1) Requires the disclosure of Commission records or requires the appearance of Government officials pursuant to § 210.32(c)(2); or

(2) Denies an application for intervention under § 210.19. Appeals from such rulings may be sought by filing an application for review, not to exceed 15 pages, with the Commission within five days after service of the administrative law judge's ruling. An answer to the application for review may be filed within five days after service of the application. The application for review should specify the person or party taking the appeal, designate the ruling or part thereof from which appeal is being taken, and specify the reasons and present arguments as to why review is being sought. The Commission may, upon its own motion, enter an order staying the return date of an order issued by the administrative law judge pursuant to § 210.32(c)(2) or may enter an order placing the matter on the Commission's docket for review. Any order placing the matter on the Commission's docket for review will set forth the scope of the review and the issues that will be considered and will make provision for the filing of briefs if deemed appropriate by the Commission.
