
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### ยง 210.24 Interlocutory appeals.
####### Appeals with leave of the administrative law judge.

(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a) of this section, ยง 210.64, and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, applications for review of a ruling by an administrative law judge may be allowed only upon request made to the administrative law judge and upon determination by the administrative law judge in writing, with justification in support thereof, that the ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion, and that either an immediate appeal from the ruling may materially advance the ultimate completion of the investigation or subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy.

(2) Applications for review of a ruling by an administrative law judge under ยง 210.5(e)(1) as to whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment under ยง 210.5(b) may be allowed only upon request made to the administrative law judge and upon determination by the administrative law judge in writing, with justification in support thereof.

(3) A written application for review under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section shall not exceed 15 pages and may be filed within five days after service of the administrative law judge's determination. An answer to the application for review may be filed within five days after service of the application for review. Thereupon, the Commission may, in its discretion, permit an appeal. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, Commission review, if permitted, shall be confined to the application for review and answer thereto, without oral argument or further briefs.
