
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart D - Motions
###### § 210.25 Sanctions.

(a)(1) Any party may file a motion for sanctions for abuse of process under 210.4(d)(1), abuse of discovery under § 210.27(g)(3), failure to make or cooperate in discovery under § 210.33(b) or (c), or violation of a protective order under § 210.34(c). A motion alleging abuse of process should be filed promptly after the requirements of § 210.4(d)(1)(i) have been satisfied. A motion alleging abuse of discovery, failure to make or cooperate in discovery, or violation of a protective order should be filed promptly after the allegedly sanctionable conduct is discovered.

(2) The administrative law judge (when the investigation or related proceeding is before the administrative law judge) or the Commission (when the investigation or related proceeding is before it) also may raise the sanctions issue sua sponte. (See also §§ 210.4(d)(1)(ii), 210.27(g)(3), 210.33(c), and 210.34(c).)

(b) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the presiding administrative law judge, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred and is discovered while the administrative law judge is presiding in an investigation or in a related proceeding. During an investigation, the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion shall be in the form of an order, if it is issued before or concurrently with the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation. In a related proceeding, the administrative law judge's ruling shall be in the form of an order, regardless of the point in time at which the order is issued.

(c) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the Commission, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred while the Commission is presiding or is filed after the subject investigation or related proceeding is terminated. The Commission may assign the motion to an administrative law judge for issuance of a recommended determination. The deadlines and procedures that will be followed in processing the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge.

(d) If an administrative law judge's order concerning sanctions is issued before the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation, it may be appealed under § 210.24(b)(1) with leave from the administrative law judge, if the requirements of that section are satisfied. If the order is issued concurrently with the initial determination, the order may be appealed by filing a petition meeting the requirements of § 210.43(b). The periods for filing such petitions and responding to the petitions will be specified in the Commission notice issued pursuant to § 210.42(i), if the initial determination has granted a motion for termination of the investigation, or in the Commission notice issued pursuant to § 210.46(a), if the initial determination concerns violation of section 337. The Commission will determine whether to adopt the order after disposition of the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation.

(e) If the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion for sanctions is in the form of a recommended determination pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the deadlines and procedures for parties to contest the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge.

(f) If a motion for sanctions is filed with the administrative law judge during an investigation, he may defer his adjudication of the motion until after he has issued a final initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of investigation. If the administrative law judge defers his adjudication in such a manner, his ruling on the motion for sanctions must be in the form of a recommended determination and shall be issued no later than 30 days after issuance of the Commission's final determination on violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation. To aid the Commission in determining whether to adopt a recommended determination, any party may file written comments with the Commission 14 days after service of the recommended determination. Replies to such comments may be filed within seven days after service of the comments. The Commission will determine whether to adopt the recommended determination after reviewing the parties' arguments and taking any other steps the Commission deems appropriate.
