
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart E - Discovery and Compulsory Process
###### ยง 210.27 General provisions governing discovery.
####### in camera

(ii) Within 7 days of service of the notice, the claimant and the parties shall meet and confer in good faith to resolve the claim of privilege or protection. Within 5 days after the conference, a party may file a motion to compel the production of the document and may, in the motion to compel, use a description of the document from the notice produced under this paragraph. In connection with the motion to compel, the party may submit the documentfor consideration by the administrative law judge. The person that produced the document must preserve the document until the claim of privilege or protection is resolved.

(3) Parties may enter into a written agreement to waive compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section for documents, communications, and items created or communicated within a time period specified in the agreement. The administrative law judge may decline to entertain any motion based on information claimed to be subject to the agreement. If information claimed to be subject to the agreement is produced in discovery then the administrative law judge may determine that the produced information is not entitled to privilege or protection.

(4) For good cause, the administrative law judge may order a different period of time for compliance with any requirement of this section. Parties may enter into a written agreement to set a different period of time for compliance with any requirement of this section without approval by the administrative law judge unless the administrative law judge has ordered a different period of time for compliance, in which case the parties' agreement must be approved by the administrative law judge.

(5)(i) The provisions of ยง 210.27(e)(1) through (4) protect drafts of expert reports, regardless of the form in which the draft is recorded.

(ii) The provisions of ยง 210.27(e)(1) through (4) protect communications between the party's attorney and expert witnesses concerning trial preparation, regardless of the form of the communications, except to the extent that the communications:

(A) Relate to compensation for the expert's study or testimony;

(B) Identify facts or data that the party's attorney provided and that the expert considered in forming the opinions to be expressed; or

(iii) Identify assumptions that the party's attorney provided and that the expert relied on in forming the opinions to be expressed.
