
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart E - Discovery and Compulsory Process
###### ยง 210.28 Depositions.
####### Notice of examination.

(c)A party desiring to take the deposition of a person shall give notice in writing to every other party to the investigation. The administrative law judge shall determine the appropriate period for providing such notice. A party upon whom a notice of deposition is served may make objections to a notice of deposition and state the reasons therefor within ten days of service of the notice of deposition. The notice shall state the time and place for taking the deposition and the name and address of each person to be examined, if known, and, if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or group to which he belongs. A notice may provide for the taking of testimony by telephone, but the administrative law judge may, on motion of any party, require that the deposition be taken in the presence of the deponent. The parties may stipulate in writing, or the administrative law judge may upon motion order, that the testimony at a deposition be recorded by other than stenographic means. If a subpoena duces tecum is to be served on the person to be examined, the designation of the materials to be produced as set forth in the subpoena shall be attached to or included in the notice.
