
# Title 19 - Customs Duties
## Chapter II - United States International Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Investigations of Unfair Practices in Import Trade
#### PART 210 - ADJUDICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### Subpart E - Discovery and Compulsory Process
###### ยง 210.28 Depositions.
####### Taking of deposition.

(d)Each deponent shall be duly sworn, and any adverse party shall have the right to cross-examine. Objections to questions or documents shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon. Evidence objected to shall be taken subject to the objections, except that privileged communications and subject matter need not be disclosed. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be reduced to writing, after which the deposition shall be subscribed by the deponent (unless the parties by stipulation waive signing or the deponent is ill or cannot be found or refuses to sign) and certified by the person before whom the deposition was taken. If the deposition is not subscribed by the deponent, the person administering the oath shall state on the record such fact and the reason therefor. When a deposition is recorded by stenographic means, the stenographer shall certify on the transcript that the witness was sworn in the stenographer's presence and that the transcript is a true record of the testimony of the witness. When a deposition is recorded by other than stenographic means and is thereafter transcribed, the person transcribing it shall certify that the person heard the witness sworn on the recording and that the transcript is a correct writing of the recording. Thereafter, upon payment of reasonable charges therefor, that person shall furnish a copy of the transcript or other recording of the deposition to any party or to the deponent. See paragraph (i) of this section concerning the effect of errors and irregularities in depositions.
