
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 10 - NATIVE AMERICAN GRAVES PROTECTION AND REPATRIATION REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Human Remains, Funerary Objects, Sacred Objects, or Objects of Cultural Patrimony From Federal or Tribal Lands
##### ยง 10.3 Intentional archaeological excavations.
###### et seq.

(1) The objects are excavated or removed following the requirements of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (ARPA) (16 U.S.C. 470aa) and its implementing regulations. Regarding private lands within the exterior boundaries of any Indian reservation, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) will serve as the issuing agency for any permits required under the Act. For BIA procedures for obtaining such permits, see 25 CFR part 262 or contact the Deputy Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. Regarding lands administered for the benefit of Native Hawaiians pursuant to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, and section 4 of Pub. L. 86-3, the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands will serve as the issuing agency for any permits required under the Act, with the Hawaii State Historic Preservation Division of the Department of Land and Natural Resources acting in an advisory capacity for such issuance. Procedures and requirements for issuing permits will be consistent with those required by the ARPA and its implementing regulations;

(2) The objects are excavated after consultation with or, in the case of tribal lands, consent of, the appropriate Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization pursuant to ยง 10.5;

(3) The disposition of the objects is consistent with their custody as described in ยง 10.6; and

(4) Proof of the consultation or consent is shown to the Federal agency official or other agency official responsible for the issuance of the required permit.
