
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 10 - NATIVE AMERICAN GRAVES PROTECTION AND REPATRIATION REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Human Remains, Funerary Objects, Sacred Objects, or Objects of Cultural Patrimony in Museums and Federal Collections
##### ยง 10.8 Summaries.
###### Consultation.

(d)(1) Consulting parties. Museum and Federal agency officials must consult with Indian tribe officials and traditional religious leaders:

(i) From whose tribal lands unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony originated;

(ii) That are, or are likely to be, culturally affiliated with unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony; and

(iii) From whose aboriginal lands unassociated funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony originated.

(2) Initiation of consultation. Museum and Federal agency officials must begin summary consultation no later than the completion of the summary process. Consultation may be initiated with a letter, but should be followed up by telephone or face-to-face dialogue with the appropriate Indian tribe official.

(3) Provision of information. During summary consultation, museum and Federal agency officials must provide copies of the summary to lineal descendants, when known, and to officials and traditional religious leaders representing Indian tribes or Native Hawaiian organizations that are, or are likely to be, culturally affiliated with the cultural items. A copy of the summary must also be provided to the Manager, National NAGPRA Program. Upon request by lineal descendants or Indian tribe officials, museum and Federal agency officials must provide lineal descendants, Indian tribe officials and traditional religious leaders with access to records, catalogues, relevant studies, or other pertinent data for the limited purposes of determining the geographic origin, cultural affiliation, and basic facts surrounding acquisition and accession of objects covered by the summary. Access to this information may be requested at any time and must be provided in a reasonable manner to be agreed upon by all parties. The Review committee also must be provided access to such materials.

(4) Requests for information. During the summary consultation, museum and Federal agency officials must request, as appropriate, the following information from Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations that are, or are likely to be, culturally affiliated with their collections:

(i) Name and address of the Indian tribe official to act as representative in consultations related to particular objects;

(ii) Recommendations on how the consultation process should be conducted, including:

(A) Names and appropriate methods to contact any lineal descendants, if known, of individuals whose unassociated funerary objects or sacred objects are included in the summary;

(B) Names and appropriate methods to contact any traditional religious leaders that the Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization thinks should be consulted regarding the collections; and

(iii) Kinds of cultural items that the Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization considers to be funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony.
