
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 10 - NATIVE AMERICAN GRAVES PROTECTION AND REPATRIATION REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Human Remains, Funerary Objects, Sacred Objects, or Objects of Cultural Patrimony in Museums and Federal Collections
##### ยง 10.9 Inventories.
###### General.

(a)This section carries out section 5 of the Act. Under section 5 of the Act, each museum or Federal agency that has possession or control over holdings or collections of human remains and associated funerary objects must compile an inventory of such objects, and, to the fullest extent possible based on information possessed by the museum or Federal agency, must identify the geographical and cultural affiliation of each item. The purpose of the inventory is to facilitate repatriation by providing clear descriptions of human remains and associated funerary objects and establishing the cultural affiliation between these objects and present-day Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. Museums and Federal agencies are encouraged to produce inventories first on those portions of their collections for which information is readily available or about which Indian tribes or Native Hawaiian organizations have expressed special interest. Early focus on these parts of collections will result in determinations that may serve as models for other inventories. Federal agencies must ensure that these requirements are met for all collections from their lands or generated by their actions whether the collections are held by the Federal agency or by a non-Federal institution.
