
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 10 - NATIVE AMERICAN GRAVES PROTECTION AND REPATRIATION REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Human Remains, Funerary Objects, Sacred Objects, or Objects of Cultural Patrimony in Museums and Federal Collections
##### ยง 10.12 Civil penalties.
###### File a petition for relief.,http://www.nps.gov/nagpra/CONTACTS/INDEX.HTM.

(3)You may file a petition for relief within 45 calendar days of receiving the notice of assessment. A petition for relief is to be sent to the NAGPRA Civil Penalties Coordinator, National NAGPRA Program, at the mailing address listed on the National NAGRPA Contact Information Web site,Your petition may ask the Secretary not to assess a penalty or to reduce the penalty amount. Your petition must:

(i) Be in writing and signed by an official authorized to sign such documents; and

(ii) Fully explain the legal or factual basis for the requested relief.

(4) Request a hearing. Figure 1 outlines the civil penalty hearing and appeal process.

(i) In addition to the documentation required in paragraph (g) of this section, your request must include a copy of the notice of assessment and must identify the basis for challenging the assessment.

(ii) In this hearing, the amount of the civil penalty assessed must be determined in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, and will not be limited to the amount assessed by the Secretary or any offer of mitigation or remission made by the Secretary.
