
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart A - Introduction
##### ยง 11.18 Incorporation by reference.
###### Economic and Environmental Principles and Guidelines for Water and Related Land Resources Implementation Studies,

(2) Appendix 1 (Travel Cost Method), Appendix 2 (Contingent Valuation (Survey) Methods), and Appendix 3 (Unit Day Value Method) only of Section VIII of "National Economic Development (NED) Benefit Evaluation Procedures" (Procedures), which is Chapter II ofU.S. Department of the Interior, Water Resources Council, Washington, DC, 1984, DOI/WRC/-84/01; available for purchase from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161; PB No. 84-199-405; ph: (703) 487-4650. Reference is made to this publication in ยง 11.83(a)(3) of this part.

(3) "Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition" (Uniform Appraisal Standards), Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, Washington, DC, 1973; available for purchase from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402; Stock Number 052-059-00002-0; ph: (202) 783-3238. Reference is made to this publication in ยง 11.83(c)(2)(i) of this part.

(4) The CERCLA Type A Natural Resource Damage Assessment Model for Coastal and Marine Environments Technical Documentation, Volumes I-VI, dated April 1996, including Revision I dated October 1997, and Revision II dated December 1999, prepared for the U.S. Department of the Interior by Applied Science Associates, Inc., A.T. Kearney, Inc., and Hagler Bailly Consulting, Inc. (NRDAM/CME technical document). Interested parties may obtain a copy of this document from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161; PB96-501788; ph: (703) 487-4650. Sections 11.34 (a), (b), and (e), 11.35(a), 11.36(b), 11.40(a), and 11.42(a), and Appendix II refer to this document.

(5) The CERCLA Type A Natural Resource Damage Assessment Model for Great Lakes Environments Technical Documentation, Volumes I-IV, dated April 1996, including Revision I dated October 1997, and Revision II dated December 1999, prepared for the U.S. Department of the Interior by Applied Science Associates, Inc., and Hagler Bailly Consulting, Inc. (NRDAM/GLE technical document). Interested parties may obtain a copy of this document from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161; PB96-501770; ph: (703) 487-4650. Sections 11.34 (a), (b), and (e), 11.35(a), 11.36(b), 11.40(a), and 11.42(a), and Appendix III refer to this document.
