
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart C - Assessment Plan Phase
##### ยง 11.31 What does the Assessment Plan include?
###### General content and level of detail.

(a)(1) The Assessment Plan must identify and document the use of all of the type A and/or type B procedures that will be performed.

(2) The Assessment Plan shall be of sufficient detail to serve as a means of evaluating whether the approach used for assessing the damage is likely to be cost-effective and meets the definition of reasonable cost, as those terms are used in this part. The Assessment Plan shall include descriptions of the natural resources and the geographical areas involved. The Assessment Plan shall also include a statement of the authority for asserting trusteeship, or co-trusteeship, for those natural resources considered within the Assessment Plan. The authorized official's statement of the authority for asserting trusteeship shall not have the force and effect of a rebuttable presumption under ยง 11.91(c) of this part. In addition, for type B assessments, the Assessment Plan shall include the sampling locations within those geographical areas, sample and survey design, numbers and types of samples to be collected, analyses to be performed, preliminary determination of the recovery period, and other such information required to perform the selected methodologies.

(3) The Assessment Plan shall contain information sufficient to demonstrate that the damage assessment has been coordinated to the extent possible with any remedial investigation feasibility study or other investigation performed pursuant to the NCP.

(4) The Assessment Plan shall contain procedures and schedules for sharing data, split samples, and results of analyses, when requested, with any identified potentially responsible parties and other natural resource trustees.
