
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart C - Assessment Plan Phase
##### ยง 11.32 How does the authorized official develop the Assessment Plan?
###### Coordination.

(1)(i) If the authorized official's responsibility is shared with other natural resource trustees as a result of coexisting or contiguous natural resources or concurrent jurisdiction, the authorized official shall ensure that all other known affected natural resource trustees are notified that an Assessment Plan is being developed. This notification shall include the results of the Preassessment Screen Determination.

(ii) Authorized officials from different agencies or Indian tribes are encouraged to cooperate and coordinate any assessments that involve coexisting or contiguous natural resources or concurrent jurisdiction. They may arrange to divide responsibility for implementing the assessment in any manner that is agreed to by all of the affected natural resource trustees with the following conditions:

(A) A lead authorized official shall be designated to administer the assessment. The lead authorized official shall act as coordinator and contact regarding all aspects of the assessment and shall act as final arbitrator of disputes if consensus among the authorized officials cannot be reached regarding the development, implementation, or any other aspect of the Assessment Plan. The lead authorized official shall be designated by mutual agreement of all the natural resource trustees. If consensus cannot be reached as to the designation of the lead authorized official, the lead authorized official shall be designated in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) (B), (C), or (D) of this section:

(B) When the natural resources being assessed are located on lands or waters subject to the administrative jurisdiction of a Federal agency, a designated official of the Federal agency shall act as the lead authorized official.

(C) When the natural resources being assessed, pursuant to section 126(d) of CERCLA, are located on lands or waters of an Indian tribe, an official designated by the Indian tribe shall act as the lead authorized official.

(D) For all other natural resources for which the State may assert trusteeship, a designated official of the State agency shall act as the lead authorized official.

(iii) If there is a reasonable basis for dividing the assessment, the natural resource trustee may act independently and pursue separate assessments, actions, or claims so long as the claims do not overlap. In these instances, the natural resource trustees shall coordinate their efforts, particularly those concerning the sharing of data and the development of the Assessment Plans.
