
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart C - Assessment Plan Phase
##### ยง 11.32 How does the authorized official develop the Assessment Plan?
###### Identification and involvement of the potentially responsible party.

(2)(i) If the lead agency under the NCP for response actions at the site has not identified potentially responsible parties, the authorized official shall make reasonable efforts to identify any potentially responsible parties.

(ii) In the event the number of potentially responsible parties is large or if some of the potentially responsible parties cannot be located, the authorized official may proceed against any one or more of the parties identified. The authorized official should use reasonable efforts to proceed against most known potentially responsible parties or at least against all those potentially responsible parties responsible for significant portions of the potential injury.

(iii)(A) The authorized official shall send a Notice of Intent to Perform an Assessment to all identified potentially responsible parties. The Notice shall invite the participation of the potentially responsible party, or, if several parties are involved and if agreed to by the lead authorized official, a representative or representatives designated by the parties, in the development of the type and scope of the assessment and in the performance of the assessment. The Notice shall briefly describe, to the extent known, the site, vessel, or facility involved, the discharge of oil or release of hazardous substance of concern to the authorized official, and the resources potentially at risk. The Notice shall also contain a statement of authority for asserting trusteeship, or co-trusteeship, over those natural resources identified as potentially at risk.

(B) The authorized official shall allow at least 30 calendar days, with reasonable extensions granted as appropriate, for the potentially responsible party or parties notified to respond to the Notice before proceeding with the development of the Assessment Plan or any other assessment actions.
