
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart C - Assessment Plan Phase
##### § 11.38 Assessment Plan - preliminary estimate of damages.
###### Steps.

(c)The preliminary estimate of damages should include consideration of the ability of the resources to recover naturally and, if relevant, the compensable value through the recovery period with and without possible alternative actions. The authorized official shall consider the following factors, to the extent possible, in making the preliminary estimate of damages:

(1) The preliminary estimate of costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources should include consideration of a range of possible alternative actions that would accomplish the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent of the injured natural resources.

(i) The preliminary estimate of costs should take into account the effects, or anticipated effects, of any response actions.

(ii) The preliminary estimate of costs should represent the expected present value of anticipated costs, expressed in constant dollars, and should include direct and indirect costs, and include the timing of those costs. The provisions detailed in §§ 11.80-11.84 of this part are the basis for the development of the estimate.

(iii) The discount rate to be used in developing the preliminary estimate of costs shall be that determined in accordance with the guidance in § 11.84(e) of this part.

(2) The preliminary estimate of compensable value should be consistent with the range of possible alternatives for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources being considered.
