
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart D - Type A Procedures
##### § 11.40 What are type A procedures?

(a) A type A procedure is a standardized methodology for performing Injury Determination, Quantification, and Damage Determination that requires minimal field observation. There are two type A procedures: the type A procedure for coastal and marine environments; and the type A procedure for Great Lakes environments. The type A procedure for coastal and marine environments incorporates a computer model called the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Model for Coastal and Marine Environments Version 2.51 (NRDAM/CME). The NRDAM/CME technical document (incorporated by reference, see § 11.18) includes and explains the NRDAM/CME. The type A procedure for Great Lakes environments incorporates a computer model called the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Model for Great Lakes Environments Version 1.51 (NRDAM/GLE). The NRDAM/GLE technical document (incorporated by reference, see § 11.18) includes and explains the NRDAM/GLE. The authorized official must follow §§ 11.41 through 11.44 when using the type A procedures.

(b) The reasonable and necessary costs incurred in conducting assessments under this subpart shall be limited to those costs incurred or anticipated by the authorized official for, and specifically allocable to, incident-specific efforts taken in the assessment of damages for natural resources for which the agency or Indian tribe is acting as trustee. Such costs shall be supported by appropriate records and documentation, and shall not reflect regular activities performed by the agency or the Indian tribe in management of the natural resource. Activities undertaken as part of the damage assessment shall be taken in a manner that is cost-effective, as that phrase is used in this part.
