
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart D - Type A Procedures
##### ยง 11.41 What data must the authorized official supply?

(a) The NRDAM/CME and the NRDAM/GLE require several data inputs to operate. The authorized official must develop the following data inputs:

(1) The identity of the released substance;

(2) The mass or volume of the identified substance that was released;

(3) The duration of the release;

(4) The time of the release;

(5) The location of the release;

(6) The wind conditions;

(7) The extent of response actions;

(8) The extent of any closures;

(9) The implicit price deflator; and

(10) For the NRDAM/CME, the condition of the currents and tides.

(b) The authorized official must change the data in the NRDAM/CME and the NRDAM/GLE for the following parameters if he or she is aware of more accurate data:

(1) Air temperature;

(2) Water temperature at the surface;

(3) Total suspended sediment concentration;

(4) Mean settling velocity of suspended solids; and

(5) Habitat type.

(c)(1) If the release occurred in Alaska and the authorized official is not aware of any reliable evidence that ice was absent from the site of the release, then he or she must turn on the ice modeling function. Otherwise, the authorized official must leave the ice modeling function off.

(2) If the release occurred in the Great Lakes and the authorized official is aware of reliable evidence that ice was absent from the site of the release, then he or she must turn off the ice modeling function.

(d) The authorized official must develop the data inputs and modifications and include them in the Assessment Plan in the format specified in Appendix II (for the NRDAM/CME) or Appendix III (for the NRDAM/GLE).
