
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### § 11.61 Injury determination phase - general.
###### Injury Determination phase steps.

(c)(1) The authorized official shall determine whether the potentially injured resource constitutes a surface water, ground water, air, geologic, or biological resource as defined in § 11.14 of this part. The authorized official shall then proceed in accordance with the guidance provided in the injury definition section, § 11.62 of this part, to determine if the resource is injured.

(2) The authorized official shall follow the guidance provided in the testing and sampling methods section, § 11.64 of this part, in selecting the methodology for determining injury. The authorized official shall select from available testing and sampling procedures one or more procedures that meet the requirements of the selected methodologies.

(3) The authorized official shall follow the guidance provided in the pathway section, § 11.63 of this part, to determine the route through which the oil or hazardous substance is or was transported from the source of the discharge or release to the injured resource.

(4) If more than one resource, as defined in § 11.14(z) of this part, has potentially been injured, an injury determination for each resource shall be made in accordance with the guidance provided in each section of the Injury Determination phase.
