
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.62 Injury determination phase - injury definition.
###### Biological resources.

(f)(1) An injury to a biological resource has resulted from the discharge of oil or release of a hazardous substance if concentration of the substance is sufficient to:

(i) Cause the biological resource or its offspring to have undergone at least one of the following adverse changes in viability: death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions in reproduction), or physical deformations; or

(ii) Exceed action or tolerance levels established under section 402 of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 342, in edible portions of organisms; or

(iii) Exceed levels for which an appropriate State health agency has issued directives to limit or ban consumption of such organism.

(2) The method for determining injury to a biological resource, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, shall be chosen based upon the capability of the method to demonstrate a measurable biological response. An injury can be demonstrated if the authorized official determines that the biological response under consideration can satisfy all of the following acceptance criteria:

(i) The biological response is often the result of exposure to oil or hazardous substances. This criterion excludes biological responses that are caused predominately by other environmental factors such as disturbance, nutrition, trauma, or weather. The biological response must be a commonly documented response resulting from exposure to oil or hazardous substances.

(ii) Exposure to oil or hazardous substances is known to cause this biological response in free-ranging organisms. This criterion identifies biological responses that have been documented to occur in a natural ecosystem as a result of exposure to oil or hazardous substances. The documentation must include the correlation of the degree of the biological response to the observed exposure concentration of oil or hazardous substances.

(iii) Exposure to oil or hazardous substances is known to cause this biological response in controlled experiments. This criterion provides a quantitative confirmation of a biological response occurring under environmentally realistic exposure levels that may be linked to oil or hazardous substance exposure that has been observed in a natural ecosystem. Biological responses that have been documented only in controlled experimental conditions are insufficient to establish correlation with exposure occurring in a natural ecosystem.

(iv) The biological response measurement is practical to perform and produces scientifically valid results. The biological response measurement must be sufficiently routine such that it is practical to perform the biological response measurement and to obtain scientifically valid results. To meet this criterion, the biological response measurement must be adequately documented in scientific literature, must produce reproducible and verifiable results, and must have well defined and accepted statistical criteria for interpreting as well as rejecting results.

(3) Unless otherwise provided for in this section, the injury determination must be based upon the establishment of a statistically significant difference in the biological response between samples from populations in the assessment area and in the control area. The determination as to what constitutes a statistically significant difference must be consistent with the quality assurance provisions of the Assessment Plan. The selection of the control area shall be consistent with the guidance provided in ยง 11.72 of this part.

(4) The biological responses listed in this paragraph have been evaluated and found to satisfy the acceptance criteria provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The authorized official may, when appropriate, select from this list to determine injury to fish and wildlife resources or may designate another response as the determiner of injury provided that the designated response can satisfy the acceptance criteria provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The biological responses are listed by the categories of injury for which they may be applied.
