
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.63 Injury determination phase - pathway determination.
###### Biological pathway.

(f)(1) When biological resources are suspected as the pathway or a component of the pathway, the authorized official shall determine, using the guidance provided in this paragraph, whether biological resources, either solely or in combination with other media, served as the exposure pathway for injury to the resource.

(2) Biological pathways that resulted from either direct or indirect exposure to the oil or hazardous substance, or from exposure to products of chemical or biological reactions initiated by the discharge or release shall be identified. Direct exposure can result from direct physical contact with the discharged oil or released hazardous substance. Indirect exposure can result from food chain processes.

(3) If the oil or hazardous substance adhered to, bound to, or otherwise covered surface tissue, or was ingested, or inhaled but not assimilated, the area of dispersion may be determined based upon chemical analysis of the appropriate tissues or organs (such as leaves, lungs, stomach, intestine, or their contents) that were directly exposed to the oil or hazardous substance.

(4) If the oil or hazardous substance was assimilated, the areal dispersion may be determined based upon one or more of the following alternative procedures:

(i) If direct exposure to the biological resource has occurred, chemical analysis of the organisms that have been exposed may be performed.

(ii) If indirect exposure to the biological resource has occurred, either chemical analysis of free-ranging biological resources using one or more indicator species as appropriate, or laboratory analysis of one or more in situ placed indicator species as appropriate may be performed.
