
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.63 Injury determination phase - pathway determination.
###### 6

() Extent to which the organism is representative of the food chain of concern.

(B) Collection of the indicator species should be limited to the number necessary to define the areal dispersion and to provide sufficient sample volume for chemical analysis.

(C) When in situ procedures are used, indicator species that behave comparably to organisms existing under free-ranging conditions shall be collected. The indicator species used in this procedure shall be obtained either from a control area selected consistent with provisions of ยง 11.72 of this part or obtained from a suitable supply of wild-strain organisms reared in a laboratory setting. Appropriate chemical analysis shall be performed on a representative subsample of the indicator species before in situ placement.

(iii) In situ placement procedures shall be used where the collection of samples would be inconsistent with the provisions of ยง 11.17(b) of this part.

(5) Sampling sites and the number of replicate samples to be collected at the sampling sites shall be consistent with the quality assurance provisions of the Assessment Plan.

(6) Chemical analysis of biological resource samples collected for the purpose of this section shall be conducted in accordance with the quality assurance provisions of the Assessment Plan.
