
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.64 Injury determination phase - testing and sampling methods.
###### General.

(a)(1) The guidance provided in this section shall be followed for selecting methodologies for the Injury Determination phase.

(2) Before selecting methodologies, the objectives to be achieved by testing and sampling shall be defined. These objectives shall be listed in the Assessment Plan. In developing these objectives, the availability of information from response actions relating to the discharge or release, the resource exposed, the characteristics of the oil or hazardous substance, potential physical, chemical, or biological reactions initiated by the discharge or release, the potential injury, the pathway of exposure, and the potential for injury resulting from that pathway should be considered.

(3) When selecting testing and sampling methods, only those methodologies shall be selected:

(i) For which performance under conditions similar to those anticipated at the assessment area has been demonstrated;

(ii) That ensure testing and sampling performance will be cost-effective;

(iii) That will produce data that were previously unavailable and that are needed to make the determinations; and

(iv) That will provide data consistent with the data requirements of the Quantification phase.

(4) Specific factors that should be considered when selecting testing and sampling methodologies to meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section include:

(i) Physical state of the discharged or released substance;

(ii) The duration, frequency, season, and time of the discharge or release;

(iii) The range of concentrations of chemical compounds to be analyzed in different media;

(iv) Detection limits, accuracy, precision, interferences, and time required to perform alternative methods;

(v) Potential safety hazards to obtain and test samples;

(vi) Costs of alternative methods; and

(vii) Specific guidance provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
