
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.64 Injury determination phase - testing and sampling methods.
###### Surface water resources.

(b)(1) Testing and sampling for injury to surface water resources shall be performed using methodologies described in the Assessment Plan.

(2) Chemical analyses performed to meet the requirements of the Injury Determination phase for surface water resources shall be conducted in accordance with methods that are generally accepted or have been scientifically verified and documented.

(3) The term "water sample" shall denote a volume of water collected and preserved to represent the bulk water and any dissolved or suspended materials or microorganisms occurring in the surface water resource.

(4) Sampling of water and sediments from surface water resources shall be conducted according to generally accepted methods.

(5) Measurement of the hydrologic properties of the resource shall be conducted according to generally accepted methods.

(6)(i) Interpretation of surface-water flow or estimation of transport of oil or hazardous substance in surface water through the use of models shall be based on hydrologic literature and current practice.

(ii) The applicability of models used during the assessment should be demonstrated, including citation or description of the following:

(A) Physical, chemical, and biological processes simulated by the model;

(B) Mathematical or statistical methods used in the model; and

(C) Model computer code (if any), test cases proving the code works, and any alteration of previously documented code made to adapt the model to the assessment area.

(iii) The validity of models used during the assessment should be established, including a description of the following:

(A) Hydraulic geometry, physiographic features, and flow characteristics of modeled reaches or areas;

(B) Sources of hydrological, chemical, biological, and meteorological data used in the model;

(C) Lists or maps of data used to describe initial conditions;

(D) Time increments or time periods modeled;

(E) Comparison of predicted fluxes of water and solutes with measured fluxes;

(F) Calibration-verification procedures and results; and

(G) Types and results of sensitivity analyses made.
