
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.64 Injury determination phase - testing and sampling methods.
###### Air resources.

(d)(1) Testing and sampling for injury to air resources shall be performed using methodologies that meet the selection and documentation requirements in this paragraph. Methods identified in this section and methods meeting the selection requirements identified in this section shall be used to detect, identify, and determine the presence and source of emissions of oil or a hazardous substance, and the duration, frequency, period of exposure (day, night, seasonal, etc.), and levels of exposure.

(2) The sampling and analysis methods identified in this paragraph are the primary methods to be used for determining injury to the air resource. Air modeling methods may be used for injury determination only when air sampling and analysis methods are not available or the discharge or release occurred with no opportunity to monitor or sample the emissions.

(3)(i) Methods developed, evaluated, approved, and published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may be used for sampling and analysis to determine injury to the air resource.

(ii) Methods selected for air sampling and analysis may include those methods that have been formally reviewed, evaluated, and published by the following government and professional organizations: the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, the American Society for Testing and Materials, and the American Public Health Association.

(iii) Methods selected for air sampling and analysis shall be methods that are documented for each of the following:

(A) The range of field conditions for which the methods are applicable;

(B) Quality assurance and quality control requirements necessary to achieve the data quality the methods are capable of producing;

(C) Operational costs of conducting the methods; and

(D) Time required to conduct the methods.

(iv) The determination of concentrations in excess of emission standards for hazardous air pollutants established under section 112 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7412, shall be conducted in accordance with the primary methods or alternative methods as required in "National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Source Test and Analytical Methods," 40 CFR 61.14, and as may be applicable to the determination of injury to air resources.

(4) In selecting methods for testing and sampling for injury to air resources, the following performance factors of the sampling and analysis methods and the influencing characteristics of the assessment area and the general vicinity shall be considered:

(i) Method detection limits, accuracy, precision, specificity, interferences, and analysis of time and cost;

(ii) Sampling area locations and frequency, duration of sampling, and chemical stability of emissions; and

(iii) Meteorological parameters that influence the transport of emissions and the spatial and temporal variation in concentration.
