
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.64 Injury determination phase - testing and sampling methods.
###### Geologic resources.

(e)(1) Testing and sampling for injury to geologic resources shall be performed using methodologies described in this paragraph.

(2) Testing pH level in soils shall be performed using standard pH measurement techniques, taking into account the nature and type of organic and inorganic constituents that contribute to soil acidity; the soil/solution ratio; salt or electrolytic content; the carbon dioxide content; and errors associated with equipment standardization and liquid junction potentials.

(3) Salinity shall be tested by measuring the electrical conductivity of the saturation extraction of the soil.

(4) Soil microbial respiration shall be tested by measuring uptake of oxygen or release of carbon dioxide by bacterial, fungal, algal, and protozoan cells in the soil. These tests may be made in the laboratory or in situ.

(5) Microbial populations shall be tested using microscopic counting, soil fumigation, glucose response, or adenylate enegry charge.

(6) Phytotoxicity shall be tested by conducting tests of seed germination, seedling growth, root elongation, plant uptake, or soil-core microcosms.

(7) Injury to mineral resources shall be determined by describing restrictions on access, development, or use of the resource as a result of the oil or hazardous substance. Any appropriate health and safety considerations that led to the restrictions should be documented.
