
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.71 Quantification phase - service reduction quantification.
###### Surface water resources.

(h)(1) The area where the injured surface water resource differs from baseline shall be determined by determining the areal extent of oil or hazardous substances in the water or on the sediments.

(2)(i) Areal variation in concentrations of the discharged or released substances dissolved in or floating on water, adhering to suspended sediments, or adhering to bed, bank, or shoreline sediments from exposed areas should be determined in sufficient detail to approximately map the boundary separating areas with concentrations above baseline from areas with concentrations equal to or less than baseline.

(ii) The size, shape, and location of the plume may be estimated using time of travel and dispersion data obtained under ยง 11.63 of this part, since plumes of dissolved or floating substances may be rapidly transported and dispersed in surface water.

(3) Water and sediment samples may be collected and chemically analyzed and stage, water discharge, or tidal flux measurements made, as appropriate, to collect new data required by this section.

(4)(i) Within the area determined in paragraph (h)(2) of this section to be above baseline, the services provided by the surface water or sediments that are affected should be determined. This determination may include computation of volumes of water or sediments affected, total areas of water or sediment affected, volume of water used from the affected surface water resource, or other appropriate measures.

(ii) The services should be determined with consideration of potential effects on downstream or downcurrent resources during the recovery period, as determined in ยง 11.73 of this part, resulting from transport of dissolved substances and of substances adhering to sediments.
