
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.71 Quantification phase - service reduction quantification.
###### Ground water resources.

(i)(1) The area where the injured ground water resource differs from baseline should be determined by determining the areal extent of oil or hazardous substances in water or geologic materials in the unsaturated zone and identified geohydrological units, which are aquifers or confining layers, within the assessment area.

(2)(i) The lateral and vertical extent of discharged or released substances in the unsaturated zone, if it is known to be exposed, should be determined.

(ii) The lateral and vertical extent of plumes within geohydrologic units known to be exposed should be determined. Concentrations of substances within and adjacent to each plume should be determined in sufficient detail to approximately locate the boundary separating areas with concentrations above baseline from areas with concentrations equal to or less than baseline.

(3) Water or geologic materials may be sampled and chemically analyzed, or surface-geophysical techniques may be used for collecting new data required by this section. General verification of the plume boundaries by chemical analysis of selected water samples should be done if boundary locations are initially determined by surface-geophysical measurements.

(4)(i) Within the area determined in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section to be above baseline, the services provided by the ground water that is affected should be determined. This determination may include computation of the volume of water affected, volume of affected ground water pumped from wells, volume of affected ground water discharged to streams or lakes, or other appropriate measures.

(ii) The services should be determined with consideration of potential enlargement of the plume during the recovery period, as determined in ยง 11.73 of this part, resulting from ground water transport of the substances.

(iii) The effects on the ground water resource during the recovery period resulting from potential remobilization of discharged or released substances that may be adhering, coating, or otherwise bonding to geologic materials should be considered.
