
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.71 Quantification phase - service reduction quantification.
###### Biological resources.

(l)(1) The extent to which the injured biological resource differs from baseline should be determined by analysis of the population or the habitat or ecosystem levels. Although it may be necessary to measure populations to determine changes in the habitats or ecosystems, and vice versa, the final result should be expressed as either a population change or a habitat or ecosystem change in order to prevent double counting in the economic analysis. This separation may be ignored only for resources that do not interact significantly and where it can be demonstrated that double counting is being avoided.

(2) Analysis of population changes or habitat or ecosystem changes should be based upon species, habitats, or ecosystems that have been selected from one or more of the following categories:

(i) Species or habitats that can represent broad components of the ecosystem, either as representatives of a particular ecological type, of a particular food chain, or of a particular service;

(ii) Species, habitats, or ecosystems that are especially sensitive to the oil or hazardous substance and the recovery of which will provide a useful indicator of successful restoration; or

(iii) Species, habitats, or ecosystems that provide especially significant services.

(3) Analysis of populations, habitats, or ecosystems shall be limited to those populations, habitats, or ecosystems for which injury has been determined in the Injury Determination phase or those that can be linked directly through services to resources for which injury has been so determined. Documentation of the service link to the injured resource must be provided in the latter case.

(4) Population, habitat, or ecosystem measurement methods that provide data that can be interpreted in terms of services must be selected. To meet this requirement, a method should:

(i) Provide numerical data that will allow comparison between the assessment area data and the control area or baseline data;

(ii) Provide data that will be useful in planning efforts for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, and in later measuring the success of those efforts, and, where relevant, will allow calculation of compensable value; and

(iii) Allow correction, as applicable, for factors such as dispersal of organisms in or out of the assessment area, differential susceptibility of different age classes of organisms to the analysis methods and other potential systematic biases in the data collection.

(5) When estimating population differences of animals, standard and widely accepted techniques, such as census, mark-recapture, density, and index methods, and other estimation techniques appropriate to the species and habitat shall be used. Frequencies of injury observed in the population shall be measured as applicable.

(i) In general, methods used for estimates of wildlife populations should follow standard and widely accepted techniques such as those recommendations provided in the "Wildlife Management Techniques Manual" (4th edition, Wildlife Society, 1980, available from the Wildlife Society, 5410 Grosvenor Lane, Bethesda, MD 20814), including references cited and recommended in that manual. The specific technique used need not be cited in that manual, but should meet its recommendations for producing reliable estimates or indices.

(ii) Measurement of age structures, life table statistics, or age structure models generally will not provide satisfactory measurement of changes due to a discharge of oil or release of a hazardous substance unless there is clear evidence that the oil or hazardous substance has differentially affected different age classes and there are reliable baseline age structure data available for the population being assessed.

(iii) Mortality from single incidents may be used to estimate changes in populations only when there are available baseline population data for the area, so that the proportion lost can be estimated, and when corrections can be made for potential sampling biases, such as natural mortality and factors influencing distribution of carcasses and ability of investigators to find them. Specific techniques for measuring mortality include the following:

(A) Fish mortality in freshwater areas may be estimated from counts of carcasses, using methods and guidelines for estimating numbers of fish killed contained in Part II (Fish-Kill Counting Guidelines) of the "Monetary Values of Freshwater Fish and Fish-Kill Counting Guidelines," American Fisheries Society Special Publication Number 13, 1982 (incorporation by reference, see ยง 11.18), including use of appropriate random sampling methods and tagged carcasses as identified and discussed in Part II of that publication.

(B) The authorized official may adapt the techniques discussed in paragraph (l) (5) (iii) (A) of this section for counting dead aquatic birds or for counting marine or estuarine fish or birds. Such adaptation will require the documentation of the methods used to avoid sampling biases.

(C) Fish mortality may also be estimated by use of an in situ bioassay technique that is similar to that identified in ยง 11.62(f)(4)(i)(C) of this part, if the oil or hazardous substance is still present at levels that resulted in injury and if appropriate instream controls can be maintained at control areas.

(6) Plant populations may be measured using standard techniques, such as population density, species composition, diversity, dispersion, and cover,

(7) Forest and range resources may be estimated by standard forestry and range management evaluation techniques.

(8) Habitat quality may be measured using techniques such as the Habitat Evaluation Procedures (HEP) developed and used by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
