
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.72 Quantification phase - baseline services determination.
###### General guidelines.

(b)Baseline data shall be selected according to the following general guidelines:

(1) Baseline data should reflect conditions that would have been expected at the assessment area had the discharge of oil or release of hazardous substances not occurred, taking into account both natural processes and those that are the result of human activities.

(2) Baseline data should include the normal range of physical, chemical, or biological conditions for the assessment area or injured resource, as appropriate for use in the analysis in ยง 11.71 of this part, with statistical descriptions of that variability. Causes of extreme or unusual value in baseline data should be identified and described.

(3) Baseline data should be as accurate, precise, complete, and representative of the resource as the data used or obtained in ยง 11.71 of this part. Data used for both the baseline and services reduction determinations must be collected by comparable methods. When the same method is not used, comparability of the data collection methods must be demonstrated.

(4) Baseline data collection shall be restricted to those data necessary for conducting the assessment at a reasonable cost. In particular, data collected should focus on parameters that are directly related to the injuries quantified in ยง 11.71 of this part and to data appropriate and necessary for the Damage Determination phase.

(5) The authorized official may use or authorize for use baseline data that are not expected to represent fully the baseline conditions, subject to the following requirements:

(i) The authorized official shall document how the requirements of this paragraph are met:

(ii) These substitute baseline data shall not cause the difference between baseline and the conditions in the assessment area to exceed the difference that would be expected if the baseline were completely measured; and

(iii) The authorized official has determined that it is either not technically feasible or not cost-effective, as those phrases are used in this part, to measure the baseline conditions fully and that these baseline data are as close to the actual baseline conditions as can be obtained subject to these limitations.
