
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.72 Quantification phase - baseline services determination.
###### Surface water resources.

(g)(1) This paragraph provides additional guidance on determining baseline services for surface water resources. The general guidance provided in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section should be followed before beginning any work described in this paragraph.

(2) Applicable and available historical data shall be gathered to determine baseline conditions for the surface water resource at the assessment area. If deemed inadequate for determining baseline conditions, such data shall be used to the extent technically feasible, as that phrase is used in this part, in designating the control areas described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section for the surface water resource determined to be injured.

(3) Control areas shall be selected for the surface water resource subject to the general criteria in paragraph (d) of this section and additional criteria as follows:

(i) For each injured stream or river reach, a control area shall be designated consisting of a stream or river reach of similar size, that is as near to the assessment area as practical and, if practical, that is upstream or upcurrent from the injured resource, such that the channel characteristics, sediment characteristics, and streamflow characteristics are similar to the injured resource and the water and sediments of the control area, because of location, have not been exposed to the discharge or release.

(ii) For each injured standing water body, such as a marsh, pond, lake, bay, or estuary, a control area shall be designated consisting of a standing water body of similar size that is as near to the assessment area as practical, such that the sediment characteristics and inflow-outflow characteristics of the control area are similar to the injured resource and the water and sediments of the control area, because of location, have not been exposed to the discharge or release.

(4)(i) Within the control area locations shall be designated for obtaining samples of water and sediments.

(ii) The water discharge, stage, or tidal flux shall be measured and representative water and sediments collected as follows:

(A) Measure stage, water discharge, and tidal flux as appropriate at the same time that water and sediment samples are collected; and

(B) Obtain comparable samples and measurements at both the control and assessment areas under similar hydraulic conditions.

(iii) Measurement and samples shall be obtained as described in this paragraph in numbers sufficient to determine:

(A) The approximate range of concentration of the substances in water and sediments;

(B) The variability of concentration of the substances in water and sediments during different conditions of stage, water discharge, or tidal flux; and

(C) The variability of physical and chemical conditions during different conditions of stage, water discharge, or tidal flux relating to the transport or storage of the substances in water and sediments.

(5) Samples should be analyzed from the control area to determine the physical properties of the water and sediments, suspended sediment concentrations in the water, and concentrations of oil or hazardous substances in water or in the sediments. Additional chemical, physical, or biological tests may be made, if necessary, to obtain otherwise unavailable data for the characteristics of the resource and comparison with the injured resource at the assessment area.

(6) In order to establish that differences between surface water conditions of the control and assessment areas are statistically significant, the median and interquartile range of the available data or the test results should be compared using the Mann-Whitney and ranked squares tests, respectively.

(7) Additional tests may be made of samples from the control area, if necessary, to provide otherwise unavailable information about physical, chemical, or biochemical processes occurring in the water or sediments relating to the ability of the injured surface water resource to recover naturally.
