
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.72 Quantification phase - baseline services determination.
###### Ground water resources.

(h)(1) This paragraph provides additional guidance on determining baseline services for ground water resources. The general guidance provided in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section should be followed before beginning any work described in this paragraph.

(2) Applicable and available historical data shall be gathered to determine baseline conditions for the ground water resource at the assessment area. If deemed inadequate for determining baseline conditions, such data shall be used to the extent technically feasible, as that phrase is used in this part, in designating the control areas described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section for the ground water resource determined to be injured.

(3) A control area shall be designated subject to the general criteria in paragraph (d) of this section and as near to the assessment area as practical, such that, within the control area, geological materials, geohydrological units, and hydrologic conditions are similar to the assessment area, and ground water resources are not exposed to substances from the discharge or release.

(4) Within the control area, wells shall be identified or drilled, designated as control wells, to obtain representative ground water samples for analysis. The location, depth, and number of control wells and the number of ground water samples collected should be sufficient to estimate the vertical and lateral variation in concentration of the substances in both the unsaturated zone and in ground water from geohydrologic units similar to units tested in the assessment area.

(i) Representative water samples from each control well shall be collected and analyzed. The analyses should determine the physical and chemical properties of the ground water relating to the occurrence of oil or hazardous substances.

(ii) If the oil or hazardous substances are commonly more concentrated on geologic materials than in ground water, representative samples of geologic materials from aquifers and the unsaturated zone as appropriate should be obtained and chemically analyzed. The location, depth, and number of these samples should be sufficient to determine the vertical and lateral variation in concentration of the oil or hazardous substances absorbing or otherwise coating geologic materials in the control area. These samples may also be analyzed to determine porosity, mineralogy, and lithology of geologic materials if these tests will provide otherwise unavailable information on storage or mobility of the oil or hazardous substances in the ground water resource.

(5) In order to establish that differences between ground water conditions of the control and assessment areas are statistically significant, the median and interquartile range of available data or the test results from similar geohydrologic units should be compared using the Mann-Whitney and ranked squares test, respectively.

(6) Additional tests may be made of samples from the control area, if necessary, to provide otherwise unavailable information about chemical, geochemical, or biological processes occurring in the ground relating to the ability of the injured ground water resource to recover naturally.
