
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.72 Quantification phase - baseline services determination.
###### Geologic resources.

(j)(1) This paragraph provides additional guidance on determining baseline services for geologic resources. The general guidance provided in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section should be followed before beginning any work described in this paragraph.

(2) Applicable and available historical data shall be gathered to determine baseline conditions for the geologic resource at the assessment area. If deemed inadequate for determining baseline conditions, such data shall be used to the extent technically feasible, as that phrase is used in this part, in designating the control areas described in paragraph (j)(3) of this section for the geologic resource determined to be injured.

(3) Control areas shall be selected for geologic resources subject to the general criteria in paragraph (d) of this section and additional criteria as follows:

(i) Similarity of exposed soil or geologic material in the assessment area with the geologic resource in the control area should be the primary factor in selecting the control area. Other factors, including climate, depth of ground water, vegetation type and area covered, land slope and land area, and hydraulic gradients and spatial relation to source should be comparable to the assessment area.

(ii) The control area shall be selected such that the geologic resource in the control area is not exposed to the discharge or release.

(4)(i) A sufficient number of samples from unbiased, randomly selected locations in the control area shall be obtained in order to characterize the areal variability of the parameters measured. Each sample should be analyzed to determine the physical and chemical properties of the geologic materials relating to the occurrence of the oil or hazardous substance. Additional chemical, physical, or biological tests may be made, if necessary, to obtain otherwise unavailable data for the characterization and comparison with the injured resource at the assessment area.

(ii) The mean and standard deviation of each parameter measured shall be used as the basis of comparison between the assessment and control areas.
