
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.82 Damage determination phase - alternatives for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.
###### Steps.

(b)(1) The authorized official shall develop a reasonable number of possible alternatives that would restore, rehabilitate, replace, and/or acquire the equivalent of the injured resources. Each of the possible alternatives may, at the discretion of the authorized official, consist of actions, singly or in combination, that would achieve those purposes.

(i) Restoration or rehabilitation actions are those actions undertaken to return injured resources to their baseline condition, as measured in terms of the physical, chemical, or biological properties that the injured resources would have exhibited or the services that would have been provided by those resources had the discharge of oil or release of the hazardous substance under investigation not occurred. Such actions would be in addition to response actions completed or anticipated pursuant to the National Contingency Plan (NCP).

(ii) Replacement or acquisition of the equivalent means the substitution for injured resources with resources that provide the same or substantially similar services, when such substitutions are in addition to any substitutions made or anticipated as part of response actions and when such substitutions exceed the level of response actions determined appropriate to the site pursuant to the NCP.

(iii) Possible alternatives are limited to those actions that (i) restore or rehabilitate the injured natural resources to a condition where they can provide the level of services available at baseline, or (ii) replace and/or acquire equivalent natural resources capable of providing such services.
