
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.223 Standards for maintenance of records subject to the Act.
###### Advice to individuals concerning uses of information.

(d)(1) Each individual who is asked to supply information about him or herself which will be added to a system of records shall be informed of the basis for requesting the information, how it may be used, and what the consequences, if any, are of not supplying the information.

(2) At a minimum, the notice to the individual must state:

(i) The authority (whether granted by statute or Executive Order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary;

(ii) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;

(iii) The routine uses which may be made of the information; and

(iv) The effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.

(3)(i) When information is collected on a standard form, the notice to the individual shall be provided on the form, on a tear-off sheet attached to the form, or on a separate sheet, whichever is most practical.

(ii) When information is collected by an interviewer, the interviewer shall provide the individual with a written notice which the individual may retain. If the interview is conducted by telephone, however, the interviewer may summarize the notice for the individual and need not provide a copy to the individual unless the individual requests a copy.

(iii) An individual may be asked to acknowledge, in writing, that the notice required by this section has been provided.
