
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.84 Damage determination phase - implementation guidance.
###### Determining uses.

(b)(1) Before estimating damages for compensable value under ยง 11.83 of this part, the authorized official should determine the uses made of the resource services identified in the Quantification phase.

(2) Only committed uses, as that phrase is used in this part, of the resource or services over the recovery period will be used to measure the change from the baseline resulting from injury to a resource. The baseline uses must be reasonably probable, not just in the realm of possibility. Purely speculative uses of the injured resource are precluded from consideration in the estimation of damages.

(3)(i) When resources or resource services have mutually exclusive uses, the highest-and-best use of the injured resource or services, as determined by the authorized official, shall be used as the basis of the analyses required in this part. This determination of the highest-and-best use must be consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(ii) If the uses of the resource or service are not necessarily mutually exclusive, the sum of damages should be determined from individual services. However, the sum of the projected damages from individual services shall consider congestion or crowding out effects, if any, from the resulting projected total use of those services.
