
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart E - Type B Procedures
##### ยง 11.84 Damage determination phase - implementation guidance.
###### Compensable value during the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.

(g)(1) In determining the amount of damages, the authorized official has the discretion to compute compensable value for the period of time required to achieve the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.

(2) When calculating compensable value during the period of time required to achieve restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, the authorized official should follow the procedures described below. The procedures need not be followed in sequence.

(i) The ability of the injured resources to recover over the recovery period should be estimated. This estimate includes estimates of natural recovery rates as well as recovery rates that reflect management actions or resource acquisitions to achieve restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.

(ii) A recovery rate should be selected for this analysis that is based upon cost-effective management actions or resource acquisitions, including a "No Action-Natural Recovery" alternative. After the recovery rate is estimated, compensable value should be estimated.

(iii) The rate at which the uses of the injured resources and their services will be restored through the restoration or replacement of the services should be estimated. This rate may be discontinuous, that is, no uses are restored until all, or some threshold level, of the services are restored, or continuous, that is, restoration or replacement of uses will be a function of the level and rate of restoration or replacement of the services. Where practicable, the supply of and demand for the restored services should be analyzed, rather than assuming that the services will be utilized at their full capacity at each period of time in the analysis. Compensable value should be discounted using the rate described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. This estimate is the expected present value of uses obtained through restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources.

(iv) The uses of the resource that would have occurred in the absence of the discharge or release should be estimated. This estimate should be done in accordance with the procedures in ยง 11.72 of this part. These uses should be estimated over the same time period using the same discount rate as that specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. This amount is the expected present value of uses forgone.

(v) Subtraction of the present value of uses obtained through restoration or replacement from the expected present value of uses forgone gives the amount of compensation that may be included, if positive, in a measure of damages.
