
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Subpart F - Post-Assessment Phase
##### § 11.93 Post-assessment phase - restoration plan.

(a) Upon determination of the amount of the award of a natural resource damage claim as authorized by section 107(a)(4)(C) of CERCLA, or sections 311(f)(4) and 311(f)(5) of the CWA, the authorized official shall prepare a Restoration Plan as provided in section 111(i) of CERCLA. The plan shall be based upon the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan described in §§ 11.81 of this part. The Plan shall describe how the monies will be used to address natural resources, specifically what restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, or acquisition of the equivalent resources will occur. When damages for compensable value have been awarded, the Plan shall also describe how monies will be used to address the services that are lost to the public until restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources is completed. The Restoration Plan shall be prepared in accordance with the guidance set forth in § 11.81 of this part.

(b) No restoration activities shall be conducted by Federal agencies that would incur ongoing expenses in excess of those that would have been incurred under baseline conditions and that cannot be funded by the amount included in the separate account established pursuant to § 11.92(a) of this part unless such additional monies are appropriated through the normal appropriations process.

(c) Modifications may be made to the Restoration Plan as become necessary as the restoration proceeds. Significant modifications shall be made available for review by any responsible party, any affected natural resource trustees, other affected Federal or State agencies or Indian tribes, and any other interested members of the public for a period of at least 30 days, with reasonable extensions granted as appropriate, before tasks called for in the modified plan are begun.

(d) If the measure of damages was determined in accordance with subpart D, the restoration plan may describe actions to be taken that are to be financed from more than one damage award, so long as the actions are intended to address the same or similar resource injuries as those identified in each of the subpart D assessment procedures that were the basis of the awards.
