
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 11 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
#### Appendix III to Part 11 - Format for Data Inputs and Modifications to the NRDAM/GLE

This appendix specifies the format for data inputs and modifications to the NRDAM/GLE under ยง 11.41. Consult the back of this appendix for definitions.

The NRDAM/GLE begins its calculations at the point that the released substance entered water in an area represented by its geographic database. Any water within the geographic boundaries of the NRDAM/GLE is a "Great Lakes environment." The authorized official must determine all data inputs and modifications as of the time and location that the released substance entered a Great Lakes environment. In the case of a release that began in water in an area within the boundaries of the NRDAM/GLE, this point will be the same as the point of the release. However, for releases that begin on land or that begin outside the boundaries of the NRDAM/GLE, this point will not be the point of the release but rather the point at which the released substance migrates into a Great Lakes environment.

Documentation of source of data inputs; and

For release of single substance:

Name of the released substance that entered a Great Lakes environment as it appears in Table 7.1, Volume I of the NRDAM/GLE technical document (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.18).

For releases of two or more substances or a release of a mixture of two or more substances:

Name of only one of the released substances that entered a Great Lakes environment as it appears in Table 7.1, Volume I of the NRDAM/GLE technical document.

For releases of single substance:

Mass or volume of identified substance that entered a Great Lakes environment stated in tonnes, barrels, gallons, liters, pounds, or kilograms.

For releases of two or more substances or a release of a mixture of two or more substances:

Mass or volume of the one identified substance (rather than total mass) that entered a Great Lakes environment stated in tonnes, barrels, gallons, liters, pounds, or kilograms.

Length of time over which the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment stated in hours.

Year, month, day, and hour when the identified substance first entered a Great Lakes environment.

Latitude and longitude, stated in degrees and decimal minutes, where the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment.

At least one set of data on prevailing wind conditions for each day of the 30-day period beginning 24 hours before the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment. Each set must include:

Wind velocity stated in knots or meters per second; and Corresponding wind direction stated in the degree angle of the wind's origin.

Percentage of identified substance removed from water surface, bottom sediments, and shoreline; and

For each medium cleaned (water surface, bottom sediments, or shoreline), the number of days after the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment that removal began and ended.

Documentation that the closure was ordered by an appropriate agency as a result of the release; and

For boating areas:

Number of weekend days of closure stated by calendar month;

Number of weekday days of closure stated by calendar month; and

Area closed stated in square kilometers.

For beaches:

Whether the beach was Federal or State (including municipal or county);

Number of days of closure stated by calendar month; and

Length of shoreline closed stated in meters.

For fisheries:

Whether area closed was an offshore, nearshore, or wetland fishery;

Number of days of closure; and

Area closed stated in square kilometers.

For furbearer hunting or trapping areas and waterfowl hunting areas:

Number of days of closure; and

Area closed stated in square kilometers.

Quarterly implicit price deflator for the Gross National Product (base year 1992) for the quarter in which the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment. [See the Survey of Current Business, published by the U.S. Department of Commerce/Bureau of Economic Analysis, 1441 L Street, NW, Washington, D.C., 20230, (202) 606-9900.]

Documentation of the source of the modifications; and

For air temperature:

Air temperature, stated in degrees Celsius, assigned by the NRDAM/GLE at the point that the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment (see Table III.6.1, Volume III of the NRDAM/GLE technical document); and

Substitute air temperature stated in degrees Celsius.

For water temperature at the surface:

Water temperature at the surface, stated in degrees Celsius, assigned by the NRDAM/GLE at the point that the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment (see Table III.6.2.6, Volume III of the NRDAM/GLE technical document); and

Substitute water temperature stated in degrees Celsius.

For total suspended sediment concentration:

Total suspended sediment concentration, stated in milligrams per liter, assigned by the NRDAM/GLE at the point that the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment (see Section 3, Volume I of the NRDAM/GLE technical document); and

Substitute suspended sediment concentration stated in milligrams per liter.

For mean settling velocity of suspended solids:

Mean settling velocity of suspended sediments, stated in meters per day, assigned by the NRDAM/GLE at the point that the identified substance entered a Great Lakes environment (see Section 3, Volume I of the NRDAM/GLE technical document); and

Substitute suspended sediment concentration stated in milligrams per liter.

For habitat type:

Latitude and longitude bounds of area for which the habitat type is being modified;

Habitat type assigned by the NRDAM/GLE (see Section 6.2, Volume III of the NRDAM/GLE technical document); and

Substitute habitat type.

If the authorized official turns off the ice modeling function, then he or she must provide documentation that ice was absent from the site of the release.
