
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.226 Assuring integrity of records.
###### Records maintained in manual form.

(b)When maintained in manual form, records subject to the Privacy Act shall be maintained in a manner commensurate with the sensitivity of the information contained in the system of records. The following minimum safeguards, or safeguards affording comparable protection, are applicable to Privacy Act systems of records containing sensitive information:

(1) Areas in which the records are maintained or regularly used shall be posted with an appropriate warning stating that access to the records is limited to authorized persons. The warning also shall summarize the requirements of ยง 2.52 and state that the Privacy Act contains a criminal penalty for the unauthorized disclosure of records to which it applies.

(2) During working hours, (i) the area in which the records are maintained or regularly used shall be occupied by authorized personnel or (ii) access to the records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.

(3) During non-working hours, access to the records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.

(4) Where a locked room is the method of security provided for a system, the bureau responsible for the system shall supplement that security by (i) providing lockable file cabinets or containers for the records or (ii) changing the lock or locks for the room so that they may not be opened with a master key. For the purposes of this paragraph, a master key is a key which may be used to open rooms other than the room containing records subject to the Privacy Act, unless those rooms are utilized by officials or employees authorized to have access to the records subject to the Privacy Act.
