
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 17 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
#### Subpart A - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Race, Color, or National Origin
##### ยง 17.9 Decisions and notices.
###### Post termination proceedings.

(h)(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (g) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part.

(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section may at any time request the Secretary to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance.

(3) If the Secretary denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit to the Secretary a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes the Secretary to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart I of part 4 of this title. The applicant or recipient shall be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such a hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(4) While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (g) of this section shall remain in effect.
