
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 17 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
#### Subpart C - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age
##### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
###### § 17.335 Compliance procedure.

(a) DOI may enforce the Act and these regulations through:

(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from DOI under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or these regulations.

(ii) Use of any requirement of, or referral to, any Federal, State or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.

(b) DOI will limit any termination under § 17.335(a)(1) to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity DOI finds in violation of these regulations. DOI will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient that does not receive Federal financial assistance from DOI.

(c) DOI will take no action under paragraph (a) of this section until:

(1) The Secretary or his/her designee has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Secretary or his/her designee has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Secretary or his/her designee will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) DOI also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance from DOI to a recipient when a hearing under § 17.335(a)(l) is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from DOI includes all assistance for which DOI requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from DOI does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under § 17.335(a)(1).

(2) DOI will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under § 17.335(a)(1). DOI will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Secretary. DOI will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
