
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 17 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
#### Subpart E - Enforcement of Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs or Activities Conducted by the Department of the Interior
##### ยง 17.570 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.

(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) Responsibility for implementation and operation of this section shall be vested in the Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity. Complaints filed pursuant to this section shall be delivered or mailed to the Director, Office for Equal Opportunity, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. If any agency official other than the Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity receives a complaint, he or she shall immediately forward the complaint to the agency's Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity.

(d)(1) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.

(2) If the agency Director for the Office of Equal Opportunity receives a complaint that is not complete, he or she shall notify the complainant, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the incomplete complaint, that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete and submit the requested information within thirty (30) days of receipt of this notice the agency Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(3) The agency Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity may require agency employees to cooperate and participate in the investigation and resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to cooperate and participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties.

(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.

(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law:

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within ninety (90) days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by ยง 17.570(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Under Secretary.

(j) The agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the request. If the agency determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have sixty (60) days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this may be extended for an individual case when the Under Secretary determines that there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.

(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated.
