
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.238 Requests for access to records: Submission.
###### Form of request.

(b)(1) A request for access to records subject to the Privacy Act shall be in writing.

(2) To insure expeditious handling, the request shall be prominently marked, both on the envelope and on the face of the request, with the legend "PRIVACY ACT REQUEST FOR ACCESS."

(3) Requesters shall specify whether they seek all of the records contained in the system which relate to them or only some portion thereof. If only a portion of the records which relate to the individual are sought, the request shall reasonably describe the specific record or records sought.

(4) If the requester seeks to have copies of the requested records made, the request shall state the maximum amount of copying fees which the requester is willing to pay. A request which does not state the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay will be treated as a request to inspect the requested records. Requesters are further notified that under ยง 2.64(d) the failure to state willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated by the Department will delay processing of a request.

(5) The request shall supply such identifying information, if any, as is called for in the system notice describing the system.

(6) Requests failing to meet the requirements of this paragraph shall be returned to the requester with a written notice advising the requester of the deficiency in the request.
