
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.239 Requests for access to records: Initial decision.
###### Form of decision.

(c)(1) No particular form is required for a decision granting access to a record. The decision shall, however, advise the individual requesting the record as to where and when the record is available for inspection or, as the case may be, where and when copies will be available. If fees are due under ยง 2.64(d), the individual requesting the record shall also be notified of the amount of fees due or, if the exact amount has not been determined, the approximate amount of fees due.

(2) A decision denying a request for access, in whole or part, shall be in writing and shall:

(i) State the basis for denial of the request.

(ii) Contain a statement that the denial may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary-Policy, Budget and Administration pursuant to ยง 2.65 by writing to the Privacy Act Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary-Policy, Budget and Administration, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240.

(iii) State that the appeal must be received by the foregoing official within twenty (20) working days of the date of the decision.

(3) If the decision denying a request for access involves Department employee records which fall under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management, the individual shall be informed in a written response which shall:

(i) State the reasons for the denial.

(ii) Include the name, position title, and address of the official responsible for the denial.

(iii) Advise the individual that an appeal of the denial may be made only to the Assistant Director for Workforce Information, Personnel Systems and Oversight Group, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415.

(4) Copies of decisions denying requests for access made pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section will be provided to the Departmental and Bureau Privacy Act Officers.
