
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 19 - WILDERNESS PRESERVATION
#### Subpart A - National Wilderness Preservation System
##### ยง 19.7 Private contributions and gifts.

(a) The Secretary is authorized by section 6(b) of the Wilderness Act to accept on behalf of the United States private contributions and gifts to be used to further the purposes of the act. The Secretary, under the authorization of section 6(b), may accept on behalf of the United States any sums of money, marketable securities or other personal property (but not real property) to be used for such things as expediting reviews of roadless areas and islands under his jurisdiction, expediting mineral resource surveys of National Forest Wilderness, or fostering public information and research related to wilderness preservation.

(b) Anyone desiring to make a contribution or gift under the provisions of this section may submit an offer to the Secretary of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240, stating the amount of money or describing the securities or other personal property involved. If the offer involves property other than cash, the statement should set forth that the offeror is the owner of the property free and clear of all encumbrances and adverse claims. The offeror may specify a particular purpose for which the offer is made, but the Secretary may in his discretion reject any offer entailing purposes, terms, or conditions unacceptable to him.

(c) Sums of money and marketable securities received under this section that are not otherwise restricted and are allocated to furthering the purposes of the Wilderness Act as it relates to lands within the National Park System shall be transferred to a special account in the National Park Trust Fund and shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of 36 CFR part 9.

(d) Offers of gifts of land to promote the purposes of a grazing district or facilitate administration of public lands, including preservation and management of wilderness, values, may be tendered to the Secretary under the provisions of section 8(a) of the Taylor Grazing Act of June 28, 1934 (48 Stat. 1272) as amended (43 U.S.C. 315g). Offers of gifts of land or interests in land to facilitate administration or contribute to improvement, management, use, or protection of public lands and their resources, including the preservation and management of wilderness values, may be tendered to the Secretary under the provisions of section 103(a) of the Public Land Administration Act of July 14 1960 (74 Stat. 506: 43 U.S.C. 1364). Persons desiring to make such offers should follow the procedures established by 43 CFR subpart 2111.

(e) Under the provisions of the Act of June 5, 1920 (41 Stat. 917; 16 U.S.C. 6), the Secretary is authorized, in his discretion, to accept donations of patented lands, rights-of-way over patented lands or other lands, buildings, or other property within the various national parks and national monuments for the purposes of the National Park System. Persons desiring to offer lands, rights-of-way, or buildings under the provisions of the Act of June 5, 1920, should make inquiry of the superintendent of the national park or monument within which the property is located.
