
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 20 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart C - Acceptance and Payment of Travel and Related Expenses
##### ยง 20.302 Exclusions.
###### Conflict of interest analysis.

(2)(i) The Department's acceptance of any payment from a non-Federal source under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1353 shall not be approved when an Authorized Approving Official, identified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, determines that under the circumstances, acceptance of the travel expenses would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of all relevant facts to:

(A) Question the integrity of the work to be performed by the employee receiving the benefit; or

(B) Question the integrity of the Department's other program operations.

(ii) When making these determinations, an Authorized Approving Official shall be guided by all relevant considerations including, but not limited to:

(A) The identity of the non-Federal source and the source's relationship to the Department;

(B) The purpose of the meeting or similar function and its relationship to the Department's programs or operations;

(C) The identity of other expected participants and their relationship to the Department;

(D) The nature and sensitivity of any pending Department matter which, when decided, may affect the interests of the non-Federal source;

(E) The significance of the employee's role in any such pending matter;

(F) The monetary value and character of the travel benefits offered by the non-Federal source; and

(G) The potential reaction from Department customers, including the public, if the acceptance of travel expenses was made known to them.

(iii) An "Authorized Approving Official" means that Department official who has been delegated authority to approve the usual travel authorizations of the employee who will benefit from the non-Federal travel payment.

(iv) The procedures stated below must be satisfied before the employee (and/or the accompanying spouse) begin his or her travel:

(A) Each employee (and/or the accompanying spouse) must have an approved Travel Authorization (Form DI-1020). Section 10 ("Purpose and Remarks") of this Form must contain a statement that the authority to accept payment from a non-Federal source for the specified travel event is 31 U.S.C. 1353, and the travel situation complies with the conditions for acceptance under 41 CFR 304-1.4.

(B) The supplementary form entitled, "Report of Payments Accepted From Non-Federal Sources Under 31 U.S.C. 1353" (Form DI-2000) must also be completed and signed by the employee and the Authorized Approving Official. A copy of Form DI-1020 and Form DI-2000 must be filed with the employee's Deputy Ethics Counselor.

(C) Payment from a non-Federal source to cover the travel related expenses of an employee may be made in the form of a check or similar instrument made payable to the Department. Employees should not accept cash or negotiate checks or similar instruments payable to them. Any negotiable instruments received by an employee shall be transmitted immediately to the appropriate accounting office.

(b) When on official duty, contributions and awards incident to training in non-Government facilities, and payment of travel, subsistence, and other expenses incident to attendance at meetings may be accepted by an employee when the payment is made by a non-profit, tax exempt organization as described in 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) and when no real or apparent conflict of interest will result. Prior advice should be obtained from the employee's ethics counselor in this circumstance (5 U.S.C. 4111).

(c) Employees may accept reimbursement by the Department for travel and related expenses when on detail under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3375.

(d) Should the Director of the United States Information Agency, with the approval of the employing agency, assign an employee to a foreign government, reimbursement for the employee's pay and allowances shall be made to the United States in an amount equal to the compensation, travel expenses, and allowances payable to such person during the period of such assignment, in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 1451.

(e) Should an employee be detailed by the Secretary to an international organization which requests services, the employee is deemed to be (for the purpose of preserving his or her allowances, privileges, rights, seniority, and other benefits) an employee of the Department and the employee is entitled to pay, allowances, and benefits from funds available to the Department. The international organization may reimburse the Department for all or part of the pay, travel expenses, and allowances payable during the detail; or, the detailed employee may be paid or reimbursed directly by the international organization for allowances or expenses incurred in the performance of duties required by the detail without regard to 18 U.S.C. 209 (5 U.S.C. 3343).
