
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 21 - OCCUPANCY OF CABIN SITES ON PUBLIC CONSERVATION AND RECREATION AREAS
#### ยง 21.4 Occupancy under permit of privately owned cabins on recreation areas and conservation areas.

(a) In any areas where the Authorized Officer determines that the recreational requirements of the general public are limited, and is an area where private cabin site use has heretofore been permitted, he may extend or renew permits. Each such existing permit and any extension or renewal thereof will be:

(1) Reviewed at least once in every 5-year period to determine that the continued use of the individual cabin site is not inconsistent with the needs of the general public for use of the area. In periodically reviewing whether the existence of private cabin sites conflicts with the best public use of an area, consideration shall be given to (i) existing and projected public need for the area, (ii) compatibility between public uses and private cabin sites, (iii) development potential and plans for the area, and (iv) other relevant factors.

(2) Whenever the Authorized Officer determines that the public need for use of a recreation or conservation area has grown to a point where continued private cabin site use is no longer in the public interest, the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section will be invoked to phase out existing permits by reducing and eliminating renewals, or extensions, consistent with protection of legitimate investment in improvements. These determinations and the reasons therefor shall be published in thetogether with such other forms of public notice as may be appropriate and necessary as determined by the Authorized Officer.

(3) Except as otherwise provided in an existing permit, no substantial improvement may hereafter be placed on any cabin site under permit without the prior approval of the Authorized Officer, and on such terms as the Authorized Officer may provide, consistent with public need. All renewed or extended permits shall contain this provision. Any such provision shall expressly state that the permission to place a substantial improvement on the site is a limited license subject to public need for the area and does not give the owner of the improvement any interest in the land or any special rights or equities, other than the right to remove the improvement at any time, subject to the land being left in reasonably unimpaired condition. This provision shall expressly stipulate that the owner shall have as a time period within which to amortize his investment in a substantial improvement placed on the site after the date of the regulations in this part, only the period of his existing permit, together with such extensions of his permit as may be granted consistent with the regulations in this part.
