
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 21 - OCCUPANCY OF CABIN SITES ON PUBLIC CONSERVATION AND RECREATION AREAS
#### ยง 21.4 Occupancy under permit of privately owned cabins on recreation areas and conservation areas.
##### Provided, however,

(b) Whenever the Authorized Officer determines, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section that the needs of the general public for a particular public recreation or conservation area are sufficient to be inconsistent with further use of that area for private cabin sites, no further extension, or renewals of permits for any individual site shall, except as otherwise required by law, be granted for any period extending more than 5 years after the effective date of that determination:That, except as otherwise required by law, if an investment was made in a substantial improvement upon a site before the effective date of this part, the extension or renewal of the permit for such site shall be made for a period sufficient to permit 20 years amortization of the investment from the date of the investment in the improvement upon the site, unless the Authorized Officer finds that the needs of the general public for that site require that the extension or renewal be for a lesser period. Thus, for example, if a permit for the site is purchased before the effective date of the regulations in this part with the substantial improvement then in place, for a consideration of $1,000 or more, such amortization period runs from the purchase date, and is not affected, in any event, by the date of the determination under paragraph (a) of this section. The amortization period for any investment in a substantial improvement on or after the effective date of the regulations in this part is covered by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, this paragraph (b), and paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(1) Any permit, in an area required for general public recreation or conservation use, that expires prior to 5 years after the determination described in this paragraph (b), may, if otherwise authorized by law, be extended to the end of such 5 years if the Authorized Officer determines that such extension is necessary to the fair and efficient administration of this part.

(2) Any renewal or extension of a permit pursuant to this part shall be subject to the condition that the occupant maintain the site and the improvements thereon in a good and serviceable condition, ordinary wear and tear excluded.

(3) Any renewal or extension of a permit shall expressly state its termination date and that there will be no extension or renewal thereafter, except as provided by this part. Permits shall expressly state that they grant no vested property right but afford only a limited license to occupy the land, pending a greater public use.

(4) Upon termination of occupancy under a permit, its renewal or extension, the permittee shall remove his improvements from the site within 90 days from the date of termination, and the land shall be left in reasonably unimpaired condition and as near to its original undisturbed condition as possible. Any property not so removed shall become the property of the United States or may be moved off the site, at the cost of the permittee. Any renewal, or extension, of a permit shall state these requirements.

(5) Voluntary and involuntary transfers of cabin site permits, including by sale, devise, inheritance, or otherwise, may be permitted, subject to approval by the Authorized Officer, subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions in the permit. No such transfer shall operate to extend the terms of a permit. A transfer after the effective date of the regulations in this part shall give the transferee no rights in addition to those which the transferor had. Where any transfer of a cabin site permit is approved, the approval shall state in writing the requirements of this paragraph, and include the statement that the amortization period for any substantial improvement located on the site shall be limited to the period to which the transferor would have been entitled under the regulations in this part.
