
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 22 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND INDEMNIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart B - Indemnification of Department of the Interior Employees
##### ยง 22.6 Policy.

(a) The Department of the Interior may indemnify a Department employee, who is personally named as a defendant in any civil suit in state or federal court or an arbitration proceeding or other proceeding seeking damages against a Department employee personally, for any verdict, judgment, or other monetary award which is rendered against such employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment, or award was taken within the scope of his or her employment and that such indemnification is in the interest of the Department of the Interior as determined by the Secretary or his designee.

(b) The Department of the Interior may settle or compromise a personal damage claim against a Department employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damage claim was taken within the employee's scope of employment and that such settlement or compromise is in the interest of the Department of the Interior as determined by the Secretary or his designee.

(c) Absent exceptional circumstances as determined by the Secretary or his designee, the Department will not entertain a request either to agree to indemnify or to settle a personal damage claim before entry of an adverse verdict, judgment, or award.

(d) A Department employee may request indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment, or award entered against the employee. The employee shall submit a written request, with appropriate documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, award, or settlement proposal, in a timely manner to the Solicitor, who shall make a recommended disposition of the request. Where appropriate, the Department shall seek the views of the Department of Justice. The Solicitor shall forward the request, the accompanying documentation, and the Solicitor's recommendation to the Secretary or his designee for decision.

(e) Any payment under this section either to idemnify a Department of the Interior employee or to settle a personal damage claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds of the Department of the Interior.
