
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 23 - SURFACE EXPLORATION, MINING AND RECLAMATION OF LANDS
#### ยง 23.5 Technical examination of prospective surface exploration and mining operations.
##### et seq.

(e) If, on the basis of a technical examination, the district manager determines that there is a likelihood that there will be a lowering of water quality as described in paragraphs (d) (3) and (4) of this section caused by the operation, no lease or permit shall be issued or contract made until after consultation with the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration and a finding by the Administration that the proposed operation would not be in violation of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. section 466) or of Executive Order No. 11288 (31 FR 9261). Where a permit or lease is involved the district manager's determination shall be made in consultation with the mining supervisor.

(f) Each notice of a proposed appropriation of a materials site filed by the Department of Transportation under 23 U.S.C. 317 shall be transmitted to the proper district manager. The district manager shall cause a technical examination to be made as provided in paragraph (a) of this section and shall formulate the requirements which the State highway department or its nominee must meet. If the land covered by the proposed appropriation is under the jurisdiction of a bureau of the Department other than the Bureau of Land Management, the district manager shall consult representatives of the bureau administering the land. If the district manager determines, or, in an instance in which the land is administered by another bureau, a representative of that bureau determines that the proposed appropriation is contrary to the public interest or is inconsistent with the purposes for which such land or materials are reserved, the district manager shall promptly submit the matter to the Secretary of the Interior for his decision. In other instances, the district manager shall notify the Department of Transportation of the requirements and conditions which the State highway department or its nominee must meet.
