
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 26 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS PROGRAMS
#### ยง 26.6 Request for grant.

(a) Of the amount available for Youth Conservation Corps projects, 30 percent will be allocated for State projects. All States will be given an opportunity to participate in the program. Allocated funds not needed by a State will be reallocated, based on the merit of proposals submitted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Pursuant to section (4)(c)(1) of Public Law 93-408, States may receive grants up to but not to exceed 80 percent of the cost of funding any project from the Federal Government. The combined Federal/State costs of individual projects and other program expenses as established in the grant application determine the Federal/State cost-sharing ratio. Matching State costs can consist of either direct expenditures or services of an in-kind nature.

(c) Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424) will be used by applicants in applying for grants under this program. Application forms will be supplied to Program Agents. Only a Program Agent may submit an application. A single grant application must be submitted for the entire summer program within each State. A separate application must be used for non-summer projects. A non-summer project is defined as one which extends beyond September 30, or begins prior to May 1.

(d) The Secretaries have designated individuals for each State who will jointly represent them. Grant applications (original and two copies) must be submitted to the designated reresentative of either Secretary. January 1 has been established as the deadline date for acceptance of applications for each operating year. Names and addresses of designated representatives will be furnished to each State. The Secretaries' representatives must jointly approve grant proposals. Approval or disapproval of proposals will be documented by a formal letter to the Program Agent. The Secretaries' representatives will also be available for technical assistance and will monitor the program.
