
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 26 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS PROGRAMS
#### ยง 26.7 Application format and instructions.

Grant application must be made using the Office of Management and Budget approved form (SF-424) entitled "Federal Assistance." Specific instructions and requirements which must be followed are included in the Secretaries' State Grant Procedures Handbook. General instructions for completing the form by part numbers are:

(a) Part I-(SF-424 Cover Sheet, Sections I and II) shall be completed.

(b) Part II-(Budget Data). See YCC State Grant Procedures Handbook for definitions of cost categories and for budget narrative instructions.

(c) Part III-(Program Narrative Statement). Complete a separate description of each project, which will include the following information (Items 13, 14, 15, and 16 may be consolidated, if common to all projects):

(1) Project number.

(2) Project name and address.

(3) Project location (nearest city or town and county).

(4) Name of grantee, sub-grantee and/or contractor.

(5) Land Ownership class(es) benefiting from the program-State, county, municipal or other non-Federal public lands (identify).

(6) Number of male and female youth planned for project, including youth leaders.

(7) Type of project (7-day residential; 5-day residential; non-residential; other).

(8) Length of session(s) (e.g., number of weeks) and proposed beginning and ending dates per session.

(9) Cost of project.

(10) Description of living conditions, if residential project (types of facilities, age, condition, tents, cabins, dormitories, food service).

(11) Project staff (number and position titles).

(12) Work-learning program. (Describe major projects, planned units of production if applicable, and any constraints that are anticipated. Explain how environmental learning will be integrated into projects.)

(13) Complete calculation for daily rate of enrollee pay, including deduction for food lodging.

(14) Description of health and safety program.

(15) Description of enrollee recruiting and selection system. (The Statewide recruiting and selection plan may be substituted.)

(16) Description of staff recruiting and selection system, including affirmative action measures to be taken.

(d) Part IV-(Assurances) is preprinted within Attachment M, Exhibit M-5, OMB Circular A-102, and is to be included as part of the application. The following assurance is not preprinted and must be included by the grantee in the grant application: The grantee agrees to administer tests and questionnaires; conduct interviews; submit enrollee statistical and work accomplishment data; and otherwise assist the Federal Government in collecting information.
