
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.247 Petitions for amendment: Processing and initial decision.
###### Form of decision.

(e)(1) A decision on a petition for amendment shall be in writing and shall state concisely the basis for the decision.

(2) If the petition for amendment is rejected, in whole or part, the petitioner shall be informed in a written response which shall:

(i) State concisely the basis for the decision.

(ii) Advise the petitioner that the rejection may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary-Policy, Budget and Administration by writing to the Privacy Act Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary-Policy, Budget and Administration, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240.

(iii) State that the appeal must be received by the foregoing official within twenty (20) working days of the decision.

(3) If the petition for amendment involves Department employee records which fall under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management and is rejected, in whole or part, the petitioner shall be informed in a written response which shall:

(i) State concisely the basis for the decision.

(ii) Advise the petitioner that an appeal of the rejection may be made pursuant to 5 CFR 297.306 only to the Assistant Director for Workforce Information, Personnel Systems and Oversight Group, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415.

(4) Copies of rejections of petitions for amendment made pursuant to paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section will be provided to the Departmental and Bureau Privacy Act Officers.
