
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 27 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED UNDER PERMITS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC LAND ORDERS, AND OTHER FEDERAL AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED OR ISSUED UNDER TITLE II OF PUBLIC LAW 93-153
#### ยง 27.8 Compliance procedures.
##### Resolution of matters.

(e)(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section indicates a failure to comply with the rules, regulations, and orders implementing section 403 of Public Law 93-153, the Department Compliance Officer or his designee will so inform the recipient, contractor or subcontractor and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. Before the recipient, contractor or subcontractor can be found to be in compliance, he must make specific commitments in writing, to correct all deficiencies. The commitments must include the precise actions to be taken and dates for completion. The time periods allotted shall be no longer than the minimum periods necessary to effect such changes. Upon approval of the Department Compliance Officer, the recipient, contractor or subcontractor, may be considered in compliance, on condition that the commitments are faithfully kept. The recipient, contractor or subcontractor shall be notified that making such commitments does not preclude future determinations of noncompliance when the commitments are not being met or when there is a determination by the Department Compliance Officer that the full facts were not known at the time commitments were accepted, and that commitments are not sufficient to correct deficiencies.

(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Department Compliance Officer shall so inform the recipient, contractor or subcontractor, and the complainant, if any, in writing.
