
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 27 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED UNDER PERMITS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC LAND ORDERS, AND OTHER FEDERAL AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED OR ISSUED UNDER TITLE II OF PUBLIC LAW 93-153
#### ยง 27.10 Hearings.
##### Formal hearings,Opportunity for hearing.

(b)-(1)Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 27.9(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (i) fix a date not less than twenty (20) days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the Secretary or his designee or the administrative law judge to whom the matter has been assigned that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (ii) advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 403 of Public Law 93-153 and implementing rules, regulations, and orders and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of information on the record.
