
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 29 - TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE LIABILITY FUND
#### ยง 29.3 Fund administration.

(a) The Fund shall be administered by a Board of Trustees designated by the Permittees and the Secretary as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b)(1) The Board of Trustees shall be comprised of one member designated by each Permittee and three members designated by the Secretary. At least one member designated by the Secretary shall be chosen from persons nominated by the Governor of the State of Alaska. Each member shall serve for a period of three years and may succeed himself or herself. Each member shall have the right to vote. If additional persons become holders of rights-of-way, each such additional Permittee shall have the right to designate a trustee, and if any holder of right-of-way sells the interest in such right-of-way, such holder's designated trustee shall resign from the Board. The Board shall elect by a majority vote a Chairman and a Secretary annually.

(2) Where any activity of the Fund creates a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, on the part of any member of the Board of Trustees, the member involved shall excuse himself or herself from any consideration of such activity by the Board of Trustees.

(c) The Board of Trustees by a majority vote shall select an Administrator to direct the day-to-day operations of the Fund.

(d) The Board of Trustees shall hold meetings every six months, or more frequently when necessary to consider pressing matters, including pending claims under ยง 29.9.
