
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 2.254 Exemptions.
###### Law enforcement records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).

(c)Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the following systems of records are exempted from paragraphs (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:

(1) INTERIOR/OIG-2, Investigative Records.

(2) INTERIOR/FWS-21, Permits System.

(3) INTERIOR/BLM-18, Criminal Case Investigation System.

(4) INTERIOR/BLM-19, Civil Trespass Case Investigations.

(5) INTERIOR/BLM-20, Employee Conduct Investigations.

(6)-(7) [Reserved]

(8) INTERIOR/NPS-17, Employee Financial Irregularities.

(9) INTERIOR/Reclamation-37, Trespass Cases.

(10) INTERIOR/SOL-1, Litigation, Appeal and Case Files System, to the extent that it consists of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.

(11) INTERIOR/FWS-19, Endangered Species Licenses System.

(12) INTERIOR/FWS-20, Investigative Case File System.

(13) INTERIOR/BIA-24, Timber Cutting and Trespass Claims Files.

(14) INTERIOR/DOI-11, Debarment and Suspension Program.

(15) INTERIOR/DOI-10, Incident Management, Analysis and Reporting System.

(16) INTERIOR/DOI-50, Insider Threat Program.

(17) INTERIOR/DOI-24, Indian Arts and Crafts Board.

(18) INTERIOR/BSEE-01, Investigations Case Management System (CMS).

(19) INTERIOR/DOI-46, Physical Security Access Files.

(20) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.
