
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart F - Consolidation and Settlement Agreements
##### ยง 30.151 May the devisees or eligible heirs in a probate proceeding consolidate their interests?

The devisees or eligible heirs may consolidate interests in trust property already owned by the devisees or heirs or in property from the inventory of the decedent's estate, or both.

(a) A judge may approve a written agreement among devisees or eligible heirs in a probate case to consolidate the interests of a decedent's devisees or eligible heirs.

(1) To accomplish a consolidation, the agreement may include conveyances among decedent's devisees or eligible heirs of:

(i) Interests in trust or restricted land in the decedent's trust inventory;

(ii) Interests of the devisees or eligible heirs in trust or restricted land which are not part of the decedent's trust inventory; and

(iii) Interests of the decedent, the devisees, or eligible heirs in any covered permanent improvements attached to a parcel of trust or restricted land in the decedent's trust inventory.

(2) The parties must offer evidence sufficient to satisfy the judge of the percentage of ownership held and offered by a party.

(3) If the decedent's devisees or eligible heirs enter into an agreement, the parties to the agreement are not required to comply with the Secretary's rules and requirements otherwise applicable to conveyances by deed.

(b) If the judge approves an agreement, the judge will issue an order distributing the estate in accordance with the agreement.

(c) In order to approve an agreement, the judge must find that:

(1) The agreement to consolidate is voluntary;

(2) All parties to the agreement know the material facts;

(3) All parties to the agreement understand the effect of the agreement on their rights; and

(4) The agreement accomplishes consolidation.

(d) An interest included in an approved agreement may not be purchased at probate without consent of the owner of the consolidated interest.
