
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Formal Probate Proceedings
##### Hearings
###### ยง 30.224 May a judge compel a witness to appear and testify at a hearing or deposition?

(a) The judge can issue a subpoena for a witness to appear and testify at a hearing or deposition and to bring documents or other material to the hearing or deposition.

(1) You may request that the judge issue a subpoena for the appearance of a witness to testify. The request must state the name, address, and telephone number or other means of contacting the witness, and the reason for the request. The request must be timely. The requesting party must mail the request to all other interested parties and to the witness at the time of filing.

(2) The request must specify the documents or other material sought for production under the subpoena.

(3) The judge will grant or deny the request in writing and mail copies of the order to all the interested parties and the witness.

(4) A person subpoenaed may seek to avoid a subpoena by filing a motion to quash with the judge and sending copies to the interested parties.

(b) Anyone whose legal residence is more than 100 miles from the hearing location may ask the judge to excuse his or her attendance under subpoena. The judge will inform the interested parties in writing of the request and the judge's decision on the request in writing in a timely manner.

(c) A witness who is subpoenaed to a hearing under this section is entitled to the fees and allowances provided by law for a witness in the courts of the United States (see 28 U.S.C. 1821).

(d) If a subpoenaed person fails or refuses to appear at a hearing or to testify, the judge may file a petition in United States District Court for issuance of an order requiring the subpoenaed person to appear and testify.
