
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Formal Probate Proceedings
##### Hearings
###### ยง 30.227 What evidence is admissible at a probate hearing?

(a) A judge conducting probate proceedings under this part may admit any written, oral, documentary, or demonstrative evidence that is:

(1) Relevant, reliable, and probative;

(2) Not privileged under Federal law; and

(3) Not unduly repetitious or cumulative.

(b) The judge may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of undue confusion of the issues or delay.

(c) Hearsay evidence is admissible. The judge may consider the fact that evidence is hearsay when determining its probative value.

(d) A judge may admit a copy of a document into evidence or may require the admission of the original document. After examining the original document, the judge may substitute a copy of the original document and return the original.

(e) The Federal Rules of Evidence do not directly apply to the hearing, but may be used as guidance by the judge and the parties in interpreting and applying the provisions of this section.

(f) The judge may take official notice of any public record of the Department and of any matter of which federal courts may take judicial notice.

(g) The judge will determine the weight given to any evidence admitted.

(h) Any party objecting to the admission or exclusion of evidence must concisely state the grounds. A ruling on every objection must appear in the record.

(i) There is no privilege under this part for any communication that:

(1) Occurred between a decedent and any attorney advising a decedent; and

(2) Pertained to a matter relevant to an issue between parties, all of whom claim through the decedent.
