
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Formal Probate Proceedings
##### Decisions in Formal Proceedings
###### ยง 30.240 How will the judge decide a petition for rehearing?

(a) The judge may consider a petition as a petition for reopening if the petition for rehearing is not timely filed.

(b) The judge may summarily deny the petition based on the deficiencies of the petition. A summary denial is an order in which the judge denies the petition without deciding the merits of the issues raised in the petition and is warranted if:

(1) The petition alleges mere disagreement with a decision;

(2) The petition is based on newly discovered evidence and fails to meet the requirements of ยง 30.238(e); or

(3) The petition is based solely on issues or evidence described in ยง 30.238(d)(1) or (2).

(c) If the petition fails to show proper grounds for rehearing, the judge will issue an order denying the petition for rehearing and including the reasons for denials.

(d) If the petition shows proper grounds for rehearing, the judge must:

(1) Cause copies of the petition and all papers filed by the petitioner to be served on those persons whose interest in the estate may be affected if the petition is granted;

(2) Allow all persons served a reasonable, specified time in which to respond to the petition for rehearing; and

(3) Consider with or without a hearing, the issues raised in the petition.

(e) The judge may affirm, modify, or vacate the former decision.

(f) On entry of a final order, including a summary denial, the judge must distribute the order to the petitioner, the agencies, and the interested parties. The order must include a notice stating that interested parties who are adversely affected, or BIA, have the right to appeal the final order to the Board, within 30 days of the date on which the order was mailed, and giving the Board's address.
