
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Formal Probate Proceedings
##### Decisions in Formal Proceedings
###### ยง 30.252 What happens if BIA identifies that property was incorrectly included in a decedent's inventory?

If, after issuance of a decision, BIA identifies certain trust or restricted property or an interest therein that was incorrectly included in a decedent's inventory, then BIA will submit a petition to OHA for an order notifying all heirs or devisees of the correction and addressing any changes in distribution of property resulting from the correction.

(a) OHA will accept the petition at any time after issuance of the decision.

(b) The judge will review the petition to ensure that it identifies the property that BIA removed from the estate, explains why the property should not have been included, and includes the following:

(1) A newly issued certified inventory describing the trust or restricted land remaining in decedent's estate, if applicable;

(2) A copy of the decision, or modification or distribution order and corresponding inventory issued in the probate case from which BIA discovered that the property was incorrectly included in the decedent's estate, if applicable;

(3) A statement identifying each property in the decedent's estate that decreased to a total share of the ownership of the allotment to less than 5 percent as a result of the removal of property from the estate; and

(4) A certification that all interested parties have been associated to the case and their names and addresses are current.

(c) The judge may, at the judge's discretion, either:

(1) Deny the request for good cause; or

(2) Address the request with or without a hearing.

(d) If the judge does not deny the petition, the judge will issue an order that addresses any modifications to the distribution of the decedent's property resulting from the correction of the inventory. The order may find that the correction of the inventory does not modify the distribution of any remaining property in the estate.

(e) The judge must furnish copies of the distribution order to the agency and to all interested parties who share in the estate. The distribution order will inform all heirs or devisees, including any surviving spouse, of the right to seek reconsideration to:

(1) Object to the findings and conclusions of the distribution order; or

(2) Allege an error in BIA's inventory under ยง 30.128.

(f) The distribution order will also instruct the heirs or devisees that they must notify OHA in writing of their objection to the distribution order within 30 days of the mailing of the distribution order, and that their right to seek reconsideration will be waived if they fail to notify OHA in writing by the deadline. For purposes of filing the request for reconsideration, the written submission will be considered to be filed with OHA on the date it is postmarked or faxed to OHA.

(g) If OHA does not receive a timely request for reconsideration, the distribution order will become final on the 45th day after the mailing date. An untimely filed request for reconsideration will not be considered by OHA and will not disturb the finality of the distribution order.
