
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 30 - INDIAN PROBATE HEARINGS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart N - Miscellaneous
##### ยง 30.506 When a decedent died intestate without heirs, what law applies to trust or restricted property?

The law that applies to trust or restricted property when a decedent died intestate without heirs depends upon whether the decedent died before June 20, 2006 or on or after June 20, 2006.

(a) When the judge determines that a decedent died before June 20, 2006, intestate without heirs, the judge will apply 25 U.S.C. 373a or 25 U.S.C. 373b to address distribution of trust or restricted property in the decedent's estate. If it is necessary to determine the value of an interest in land located on the public domain, to properly apply 25 U.S.C. 373b, the judge will determine fair market value based on an appraisal or other valuation method developed by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 2214. If the interest in land located on the public domain is valued at more than $50,000, the judge's decision concerning distribution of that interest will be a recommended decision only.

(b) When the judge determines that a decedent died intestate on or after June 20, 2006, without surviving lineal descendants, parents, or siblings who are eligible heirs, the judge will apply provisions of the Act to determine distribution of trust or restricted land in the decedent's estate.

(1) If the decedent died without surviving lineal descendants, parents, or siblings who are eligible heirs, and the decedent owned at least 5 percent of an allotment, that interest will be distributed either to the Indian Tribe with jurisdiction over the interest or, if there is no Indian Tribe with jurisdiction, then split equally among the co-owners as of the decedent's date of death, subject to the exceptions and limitations detailed in 25 U.S.C. 2206(a)(2)(B)-(C).

(2) If the decedent died without surviving lineal descendants who are eligible heirs, and the decedent owned less than 5 percent of an allotment, that interest will be distributed either to the Indian Tribe with jurisdiction over the interest or, if there is no Indian Tribe with jurisdiction, then split equally among the co-owners as of the decedent's date of death, subject to the exceptions and limitations concerning small fractional interests detailed in 25 U.S.C. 2206(a)(2)(D).

(3) For either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, the judge will also determine whether the decedent had a surviving spouse, and whether the surviving spouse is entitled to a life estate.
