
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.4 Program operation requirements.

(a) The State agencies cooperating with Interior and Forest Service having natural resource management responsibilities should be involved in the planning and implementation of the program.

(b) Grantees shall be responsible for the management of each Corps camp and project, final selection of enrollees, determination of enrollee work assignments, training, discipline and termination, and camp operations in accordance with this part and guidelines issued by Interior and Forest Service.

(1) Grantees shall assure that YACC program activities will not result in the displacement of employed workers (including partial displacement such as reduction in the hours of non-overtime work or wages or employment benefits), or impair existing contracts for services, or result in the substitution of YACC funds for other funds in connection with work that would otherwise be performed, or substitute jobs assisted under YACC for existing Federally-assisted jobs, or result in the hiring of any youth when any other person is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job.

(2) Grantees shall assure that the activities in which the YACC enrollees are employed will result in an increase in employment opportunities over those opportunities which would otherwise be available.

(3) In addition, Grantees shall see that YACC enrollees do not, at the same time, share common facilities or property with, or work with members of the Job Corps, under title IV of the Act, except in emergency situations as outlined in paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section.

(c) Enrollee eligibility: Membership in the Corps will be limited to youths between the ages of 16 to 23, inclusive who are unemployed at the time of application. Citizens, lawfully permanent residents of the United States, or lawfully admitted refugees, or parolees, may apply for enrollment. Applicants also must be capable of carrying out the work of the Corps for the estimated duration of their enrollment.

(d) Candidate recruitment and referral: (1) Interested youth may apply to their local Employment Service/Job Service for enrollment. State Employment Security Agencies (SESA) and their local Employment Service/Job Service (ES/JS) offices shall take applications for YACC from all interested youth and shall refer all candidates who self-certify that they meet eligibility requirements to Grantees for selection of those to be enrolled. Self-certification by applicants ages 16 through 18 who have left school shall include an assurance that they did not leave school for the purpose of enrolling in the Corps. Such referrals shall include all interested youth, including veterans, from both sexes, and all social, economic and racial classifications. Labor shall recruit candidates for YACC through the SESA and their local ES/JS offices, prime sponsors qualified under section 102 of the act, sponsors of Native-American programs qualified under section 302 of the act, sponsors of migrant and seasonal farmworkers programs under section 303 of the act, Interior and Agriculture and such other agencies and organizations as deemed appropriate by Labor. All candidates must be referred through the local ES/JS offices.

(2) An equitable proportion of candidates shall be referred from each State, based on the State's total youth population. For YACC program purposes, total youth population is the number of youth, 16 through 23, as determined on the basis of the best available data. Youth of both sexes and of all social, economic, and racial classifications shall be referred equitably.

(e) Enrollee selection: Grantees shall-(1) Notify ES offices when openings are available;

(2) Select enrollees for the Corps only from those candidates referred by Labor and, in selection and assignment, shall provide, to the extent feasible, for equitable participation for youth of both sexes and of all social, economic, and racial classifications, and for equitable participation of youth from each State;

(3) Notify selected applicants of the date, time and place to which they should report for work, and that enrollees must provide their own transportation to and from the project or camp;

(4) Require that enrollees complete physical examinations prior to official enrollment (expenses, if any, for the physical examination will be borne by the prospective enrollee);

(5) Require parental consent for those youth who have not reached the age of majority as defined by State law;

(6) Require enrollees to provide their own clothing, with the exception of certain safety equipment which will be furnished;

(7) Notify the referring ES/JS office as soon as possible but no later than 30 days after receipt of application, which applicants have been selected and have reported for employment and which have not been so selected.

(f) Enrollment duration: (1) Grantees shall assure that no individual is enrolled in the Corps for a total period of more than 12 months. Such period may be completed in up to three separate enrollment periods so long as the youth meets the eligibility requirements at the time of each separate enrollment. An individual who attains age 24 while enrolled may remain in the program to complete the current period of enrollment.

(2) No youth shall be enrolled if he or she desires such enrollment only for the normal periods between school terms.

(g) Corpsmember activities. Grantees shall assure that work project activities on which YACC enrollees are employed are consistent with the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resource Planning Act of 1974, as amended by the National Forest Management Act of 1976. Enrollees will be assigned to work projects which are designed to diminish the backlog of work in such fields as:

(1) Tree nursery operations, planting, pruning, thinning and other silvicultural measures;

(2) Wildlife habitat improvement and preservation;

(3) Range management improvements;

(4) Recreation development, rehabilitation and maintenance;

(5) Fish habitat and culture measures;

(6) Forest insect and disease prevention and control;

(7) Road and trail maintenance and improvements;

(8) General sanitation, cleanup, and maintenance and improvements;

(9) Erosion control and flood damage;

(10) Drought damage measures; and

(11) Other natural disaster damage measures.

(h) Project criteria. YACC projects will be operated on a residential and nonresidential basis. Each project location will be jointly approved by Interior and Forest Service through their Regional/Area Offices. To the maximum extent practicable, projects shall:

(1) Be labor-intensive;

(2) Be projects for which work plans exist or can be readily developed;

(3) Be able to be initiated promptly;

(4) Be productive with positive impacts on both the Enrollee as well as the Corps from the standpoint of work performed and benefit to participating youth;

(5) Provide work experience to participants in skill areas required for the projects;

(6) If a residential camp, to the maximum extent feasible, be located in areas where existing residential facilities are available. The use of existing but unoccupied or underutilized Federal, State, and local government facilities and equipment shall be maximized; such utilization is subject to the approval of the Federal agency, State or local government having administrative control thereof;

(7) If a non-residential project, be located within acceptable normal commuting distance from the geographic center of areas of substantial unemployment as designated by Labor;

(8) Be similar to activities of persons employed in seasonal and part-time work by Federal natural resource agencies.

(i) Cooperation with agencies and institutions: (1) Grantees shall, to the extent feasible, arrange for local linkages with educational systems, CETA and other employment and training programs, employment service offices, local apprenticeship sponsors and information centers, and employers, in order to arrange for the provision of available services to enrollees, both during non-work hours while enrolled, and after termination from YACC. Grantees shall establish procedures to ensure that enrollees are made aware of established linkages and related information and opportunities.

(2) Grantees shall notify appropriate local ES/JS offices regarding enrollee status, in advance of the end of the enrollment period or upon termination and shall, to the extent feasible, assist the enrollee in making contact with ES/JS or other organizations to enhance the possibilities for placement.

(3) Labor shall work with the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare to make suitable arrangements whereby academic credit may be awarded by educational institutions and agencies for competencies derived from work experience obtained through the YACC program. Labor shall also encourage Grantees, through Interior and Forest Service, to make necessary arrangements with local education agencies so that academic credit for such work experience may be granted.

(j) Enrollee wages and hours of work: (1) Grantees shall assure that enrollees in the State Grant Program are paid at the Federal minimum wage rate specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended. As an exception, Grantees shall provide for an additional cost-of-living adjustment for enrollees in the State of Alaska, not to exceed 25 percent of the Federal Wage Rate.

(2) Wages in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Marianas shall be consistent with provisions of Federal, State, or local laws, otherwise applicable. Wages in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall be consistent with local law, except on Eniwetok and Kwajalein Atoll where section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act applies.

(3) As an incentive, Grantees may authorize incremental increases, above the minimum wage, for a limited number of enrollees, to reflect additional responsibilities or competencies. For this purpose, two promotional categories may be established: (i) Enrollee Leader, and (ii) Enrollee Assistant Leader. No more than 15 percent of the enrollment of any individual camp or project shall be given such increases. For each enrollee thus compensated, the wage increase shall be 50 percent for the enrollee leader and 15 percent for the enrollee assistant leader, of the applicable basic hourly minimum wage.

(4) Grantees shall reduce enrollee wages for each hour of unexcused absence.

(5) Enrollees assigned to residential camps may be required to assume responsibility for housekeeping and maintenance duties. Such duties shall not be considered compensable, unless scheduled during the regular work day, in which case enrollees shall be paid at the same rate as for regular work assignments.

(6) Enrollees may not be required to work more than 8 hours per day or 40 hours per week, except that Grantees may authorize overtime which shall not exceed 10 hours per week per enrollee, in which event they shall pay them at his or her regular rate.

(7) Enrollees assigned to residential camps shall be charged for daily food and lodging as follows: 75 cents per meal furnished and 75 cents per day lodging. Grantees shall arrange for payment of such charges by payroll deduction.

(8) Grantees shall establish a collection procedure for collecting payments made by program staff and visitors for meals, lodging, or other items requiring reimbursement. Amounts collected shall be treated as program income and shall be netted against total YACC program outlays by Grantees.
