
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.4 Program operation requirements.
##### et seq.

(9) Income taxes shall be withheld from enrollee wages pursuant to the Federal Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 1), and such State income tax laws as are applicable. Grantees shall provide each enrollee with the forms required to effect income tax deductions and withholding exemptions and shall assure that appropriate wage and tax statements are provided to enrollees.

(10) Interior and Forest Service shall assure that the payroll procedures for both the Federal and State programs are the same. State and local grantees shall utilize the payroll forms used by the Federal Government for payment of enrollees in accordance with the guidelines issued by Forest Service and Interior as appropriate.

(11) Grantees may utilize the payroll services of the Administrative Service Center (ASC), Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 11568, Salt Lake City, Utah 84147 for enrollee pay at no direct cost to the Grantee. Grantees may elect to payroll the enrollees through their own payroll system if the payroll system is consistent with regulations contained herein. Those Grantees electing to payroll enrollees through ASC will be furnished appropriate forms and instructions.

(k) Enrollee leave: (1) Grantees shall provide enrollees with paid annual leave at a rate of 4 hours for every full pay period which shall consist of 2 normal work weeks. Accrual shall commence at the beginning of the first full pay period after the day of official enrollment, and shall end on the date of official termination. Such leave may be accrued up to a maximum of 13 days for 52 weeks of uninterrupted enrollment: Enrollees may use accrued leave at any time, subject to approval by the Grantee, but shall use all accrued leave prior to each formal termination. Accrued leave may be used for such purposes as personal business and sick time. The date of formal termination shall be the final date upon which the youth is eligible to receive pay, whether this is a work day or an accrued but unused leave day. Compensation shall not be paid for unused accrued leave.

(2) Grantees may grant administrative leave with pay for enrollee participation in job search and employment development activities. Such leave with pay is to be counted as time in employment.

(3) Emergency or administrative leave, without pay may be granted at the discretion of the Grantee. Such leave without pay shall not be counted as time in employment.

(4) Grantees shall pay enrollees for all regular State holidays, if they are in a pay status for 8 hours on the workdays immediately preceding and following the holiday. Approved leave with pay shall count as time in employment for approved paid holidays. Such holidays shall not count as annual leave.

(l) Federal status of enrollees: Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subpart, YACC enrollees in the State Grant Program shall not be deemed Federal employees, and shall not be subject to the provisions of law relating to Federal employment including those regarding hours of work, rates of compensation, leave, unemployment compensation, and Federal employee benefits. Enrollees in the State Grant Program shall be considered Federal employees for the following purposes:

(1) For purposes of section 5911 of title 5 of the U.S. Code, relating to allowances for living quarters, enrollees whose housing is provided by the Federal Government shall be deemed civil employees of the United States within the meaning of the term "employee" as defined in that section, and provisions of that section shall apply.
