
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.4 Program operation requirements.
##### et seq.,et seq.

(2) For purposes of the Internal Revenue code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 1) and title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401), enrollees shall be deemed employees of the United States, and any service performed by a person as an enrollee shall be deemed to be performed in the employ of the United States.

(3) For purposes of chapter 171 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, relating to tort claims procedures, enrollees in the State Grant Program shall be deemed employees of the United States within the meaning of the term "employee of the Government" as defined in section 2671 of title 28 U.S. Code, and provisions of that chapter shall apply.

(i) In the event an enrollee is alleged to be involved in the damage, loss or destruction of the property of others or of causing personal injury to or the death of other individual(s) while in the performance of duty, claims may be filed by the owner(s) of the property, the injured person(s) or by a duly authorized agent or legal representative of the claimant to the Grantee who shall collect all of the facts and submit the claim to the Regional/Area Offices, Interior and Forest Service for appropriate action.

(ii) Tort claims shall be made on Standard Form 95, Claim for Damage or Injury form or a similar document, supported by necessary justification.

(4) For purposes of subchapter 1 of chapter 81 of title 5 of the U.S. Code, relating to compensation to Federal employees for work injuries, enrollees in the State Grant Program shall be deemed employees of the United States within the meaning of the term "employee" as defined in section 8101 of title 5 U.S. Code and provisions of that subchapter shall apply, except that the term "performance of duty" shall not include any act of an enrollee while absent without authorization from the enrollee's assigned post of duty, but shall include time spent participating in an activity (including an activity while on pass or during travel to or from such post of duty) authorized by or under the direction of YACC program staff.

(i) Residential enrollees are generally considered under Federal Employees' Compensation Act to be Federal employees from the time each begins Government authorized travel to the assigned YACC camp, to the time each completes Government authorized travel after termination from the program. Residential enrollees shall be generally considered in "performance of duty" at all times during any and all of their activities, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, except when they are absent without authorization from their assigned post of duty. Whether a residential enrollee is in "performance of duty" shall be determined by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP).

(ii) Nonresidential enrollees, after official enrollment are generally considered, under Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA), to be in "performance of duty" as Federal employees from the time they arrive daily at the designated area from which activities are assigned, until they leave such designated area or activity. Nonresidential enrollees are generally not covered by FECA while commuting between a designated area/authorized activity and their residence. Whether a nonresidential enrollee is in "performance of duty" shall be determined by OWCP.

(iii) Whenever an enrollee is injured, develops an occupation related illness, or dies while in the performance of duty, the Grantee shall immediately comply with the procedures set out in the Employment Standards Administration regulations of 20 CFR chapter 1. The Grantee shall also see that a thorough investigation of the circumstances, and a medical evaluation are made, and shall see that required forms are submitted to the Regional/Area Offices, Interior and Forest Service, for appropriate action.

(iv) If an enrollee dies, the Grantee, in addition to making proper notifications, in accordance with procedures established by Interior and Forest Service shall:

(A) Notify the appropriate district office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) through the Regional/Area Office, Interior and Forest Service of the death and the circumstances surrounding it, and file appropriate forms with that office.

(B) Be responsible for assuring that the next of kin is informed of benefits which may be available from Federal Employees' Compensation;

(C) Consult the decedent's family as to the final disposition of the remains before any final action is taken in this regard; and

(D) If the next of kin refuses to accept the remains, arrange for burial at a site close to the camp/project and at a cost not to exceed the amount authorized in section 8134(a) of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA).

(v) Safety and health: (A) Grantees shall assure that enrollees are not required or permitted to work or receive services in buildings or surroundings or under condition which are unsanitary, hazardous, or lack proper ventilation. Such work or services shall be conducted or provided in accordance with the standards set forth in the regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 29 CFR parts 1910, 1926, and 1960 subpart B.

(B) Grantees shall conduct safety and health inspections of every residential camp and work project area connected therewith, at least annually, consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1960.26(d).

(C) Grantees shall issue such items of protective and safety clothing and equipment to enrollees as are necessary and appropriate to insure a maximum of safety in field and construction activities, including, at a minimum, hard hats, gloves, and boots. Grantees shall also see that proper use of such clothing and equipment is taught to enrollees and enforced. Enrollees are expected to provide all other clothing.

(D) Grantees shall provide complete safety orientation to enrollees in all work situations to alert them to any hazards to which they may be exposed.

(vi) Residential living conditions: (A) Grantees shall provide for residential support facilities and services which ensure healthful and secure living conditions, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day.

(B) Grantees shall assure that all residential facilities are well maintained and shall comply with applicable Federal, State and local safety, health, and housing codes for multipurpose group residences. Adequate supervision and assistance are to be provided for the safety and welfare of the enrollees.

(vii) Enrollee services: Grantees shall provide enrollees with such transportation related to camp and/or project operations, lodging, subsistence, medical treatment and other services, supplies, equipment and faciliies as may be needed consistent with this part.

(viii) Enrollee complaints: Grantees shall establish procedures for resolving enrollee complaints and issues which arise between the grantee and any enrollee regarding adverse action, civil rights, equal employment opportunity, enrollment, or upgrading from the time at which their referrals are received from ES/JS to the time of formal termination. Such procedure shall:
