
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.4 Program operation requirements.
##### 4

() Provide an offer of assistance in preparation for hearings and appeals.

(ix) Emergency disaster work: (A) Grantees may utilize enrollees aged 18 years and over to perform work in emergency disaster situations. Enrollees may volunteer but may not be required to participate while natural disasters are occurring; enrollees may, however, be required to perform work on damage which has been caused by such disasters. The use of YACC enrollees in such activities must provide for qualified supervision and training for the enrollee. All such activity shall be conducted in accordance with regular Grantee policy: and procedures shall meet health, safety and work standards established by Labor in 29 CFR parts 97B, 22, 23, 24, and 25.

(B) Such enrollees shall be used only to supplement compensated firefighters, and shall be paid at the rates set by the Grantee as established in pay plans for emergency firefighters, in accordance with established policies, procedures and practices.

(C) No YACC enrollee is required to work for a greater number of hours per day than other firefighters.

(D) Cost incurred in using YACC enrollees in emergency disaster situations shall be borne by the funds of the benefitting organizations whenever possible; however, YACC funds may be used to provide such assistance subject to the approval of the Secretaries.
