
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.4 Program operation requirements.
##### et seq.

(E) Grantees shall see that the work activity of enrollees under age 18 is in compliance with Hazardous Occupation Orders issued pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 CFR 570.50).

(F) All YACC work and services are to be conducted consistent with the requirement of the Occupational Health & Safety Act (29 CFR parts 1910, 1926, and 1960 subpart B).

(x) Prohibited activities: Grantees shall not permit YACC enrollees to participate in emergency relief in connection with labor stoppages, strikes, riots, or civil disturbances. Enrollees shall not participate in activities on private property except as incidental to emergency work provided for in paragraph (i) of this section.

(xi) Transportation: Grantees shall assign selected enrollees to the residential camps nearest to their home as practicable; and to nonresidential projects within normal commuting distance from their homes. Daily transportation to and from home and work site for nonresidential enrollees may not be provided, except from established staging areas to work site and return to staging area. YACC will not pay the initial transportation from home to residential camp; however, residential YACC enrollees may be advanced a portion of their wages for the purpose of traveling to the camp upon a determination by the grantee that the youth is in need thereof. Grantees shall arrange for repayment of such advances by payroll deduction.

(xii) Project identification: Buildings, campgrounds and other permanent projects shall be marked with appropriate signs identifying each project as built by or under construction by the YACC.

(xiii) Post termination assistance: Grantees shall notify appropriate local ES/JS offices regarding enrollee status, in advance of the end of the enrollment period or upon termination, and shall, to the extent feasible, assist the enrollee in making contact with ES/JS or other organizations to enhance the possibilities for placement.
