
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 32 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR ESTABLISHING YOUNG ADULT CONSERVATION CORPS (YACC) PROGRAM
#### ยง 32.9 Consideration and criteria for awarding grants.

(a) The decision by the Secretaries' designated officials for award of YACC grants will consider the following:

(1) Amount of grant funds appropriated and available.

(2) The total youth population ages 16 to 23, inclusive, in each State in relation to the total for all States.

(3) The ability of State agencies to operate at the funding level provided in any given Federal fiscal year.

(4) The quality of each proposed project in terms of meeting program objectives as reflected in each application. After the initial grant year, actual performance of the Grantee in administering the YACC program in prior years will be considered.

(5) The cost to the Federal Government of the State program in relation to the quality and quantity of projects proposed.

(6) The following imposed limitations: (i) National average cost per enrollee, (ii) Percent in residential program.

(7) The capability and past performance by Grantees in meeting their responsibilities as required by FMC 74-4 and OMB Circular A-102.

(8) Project Location Approval. Each project location will be approved by Forest Service and Interior through their Regional/Area Offices.

(b) The demonstrated capability of the Grantee to establish and implement an effective mechanism to assure equal employment opportunity in staff hiring by the Grantee or any subgrantees will be considered prior to award. If the Grantee's performance is found to be so unsatisfactory or inadequate as to warrant denial, suspension, modification or termination, then appropriate action will be taken in accordance with the regulations implementing title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d.
