
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 34 - REQUIREMENTS FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF THE ALASKA NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
#### ยง 34.10 Compliance reviews.
##### Decision,

(3) If an investigation pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section indicates probable non-compliance with section 17, Condition 11 of the President'sor the implementing rules, regulations, or orders thereunder, the Federal Inspector will attempt to resolve the matter by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion.

(4) Resolution shall be effected through a written agreement between the Federal Inspector, the complainant, if any, and the person who has failed to comply. The agreement shall contain commitments to promptly eliminate all discriminatory conditions, shall identify the precise remedial actions to be taken and dates for completion of remedial actions, and shall include a provision that breath of the agreement may result in further enforcement actions by the Federal Inspector. The Federal Inspector will then certify compliance, on condition that the commitments are kept. Such certification will not preclude a subsequent determination by the Federal Inspector that the full facts were not known at the time agreement was executed, or the commitments undertaken are not sufficient to correct deficiencies.

(5) If the Federal Inspector's investigation does not warrant enforcement action, the Federal Inspector shall so inform the complainant, if any, and the person who was investigated. The complainant shall also be notified of any action taken including the achievement of voluntary compliance.

(6) Between the period of these effective dates of these regulations and the effective date of the enforcement procedures established by the Federal Inspector, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Federal Inspector shall at a minimum adhere to paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section.
