
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 36 - TRANSPORTATION AND UTILITY SYSTEMS IN AND ACROSS, AND ACCESS INTO, CONSERVATION SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### ยง 36.2 Definitions.
##### Transportation or utility system

(p)(TUS) means any of the systems listed in paragraphs (p) (1) through (7) of this section, if a portion of the route of the system will be within an area and the system is not one that the Department or agency having jurisdiction over the area is establishing incident to its management of the area. The systems shall include related structures and facilities.

(1) Canals, ditches, flumes, laterals, pipes, pipelines, tunnels and other systems for the transportation of water.

(2) Pipelines and other systems for the transportation of liquids other than water, including oil, natural gas, synthetic liquid and gaseous fuels and any refined product produced therefrom.

(3) Pipelines, slurry and emulsion systems and conveyor belts for the transportation of solid materials.

(4) Systems for the transmission and distribution of electric energy.

(5) Systems for transmission or reception of radio, television, telephone, telegraph and other electronic signals and other means of communication.

(6) Improved rights-of-way for snowmachines, air cushion vehicles and other all-terrain vehicles.

(7) Roads, highways, railroads, tunnels, tramways, airports, landing strips, docks and other systems of general transportation.
