
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 36 - TRANSPORTATION AND UTILITY SYSTEMS IN AND ACROSS, AND ACCESS INTO, CONSERVATION SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### ยง 36.5 Application review.
##### et seq.

(a) When there is more than one appropriate Federal agency, the Federal agency having management jurisdiction over the longest lineal portion of the right-of-way requested in the TUS application shall be the lead agency for the purpose of coordinating appropriate Federal agency actions in the review and processing of the SF 299, as well as for the purpose of compliance with the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321

(1) By agreement among the appropriate Federal agencies, a different Federal agency may be designated the lead agency for any or all parts of the review, processing or NEPA compliance.

(2) Upon identification of the lead agency, other involved agencies will provide assistance as requested by the lead agency.

(b) Upon receipt of an application, the lead agency will review it and determine the filing date pursuant to ยง 36.4. If it is determined that the applicant has not met the 15 calendar day filing deadline, pursuant to ยง 36.4(c) of this part, the lead agency shall notify each appropriate Federal agency to return the application to the applicant without further action.

(c) Within 60 days of the date of filing, each appropriate Federal agency shall inform the applicant and the lead agency, in writing, whether the application on its face:

(1) Contains the required information; or

(2) Is insufficient, together with a specific listing of the additional information the applicant must submit.

(d) When the application is insufficient, the applicant must furnish the specific information requested within 30 days of receipt of notification of deficiency:

(1) If the applicant needs more time to obtain information, additional time may be granted by the appropriate Federal agency upon request of the applicant, provided the applicant agrees that the application filing date will change to the date of filing of the specific additional information.

(2) Unless extended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, failure of the applicant to respond within the 30 day period will result in return of the application without further action.

(3) The lead agency shall keep all appropriate Federal agencies informed of actions occurring under paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section, in order that such agencies may note their application records accordingly.

(e) Within 30 days of the receipt of additional information requested by the appropriate Federal agency, the applicant shall be notified in writing whether the supplemental information is sufficient.

(1) If the applicant fails to provide all the requested information, the application shall be rejected and returned to the applicant along with a list of the specific deficiencies.

(2) When the applicant furnishes the additional information, the application will be reinstated, and it will be considered filed as of the date the final supplemental information is actually received by the appropriate Federal agency.

(3) The lead agency shall notify appropriate Federal agencies of any final rejection under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
