
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 36 - TRANSPORTATION AND UTILITY SYSTEMS IN AND ACROSS, AND ACCESS INTO, CONSERVATION SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### ยง 36.11 Special access.
##### Aircraft.

(f)(1) Fixed-wing aircraft may be landed and operated on lands and waters within areas, except where such use is prohibited or otherwise restricted by the appropriate Federal agency, including closures or restrictions pursuant to the closures of paragraph (h) of this section. The use of aircraft for access to or from lands and waters within a national park or monument for purposes of taking fish and wildlife for subsistence uses therein is prohibited, except as provided in 36 CFR 13.45. The operation of aircraft resulting in the harassment of wildlife is prohibited.

(2) In imposing any prohibitions or restrictions on fixed-wing aircraft use the appropriate Federal agency shall:

(i) Publish notice of prohibition or restrictions in "Notices to Airmen" issued by the Department of Transportation; and

(ii) Publish permanent prohibitions or restrictions as a regulatory notice in the United States Flight Information Service "Supplement Alaska."

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the owners of any aircraft downed after December 2, 1980, shall remove the aircraft and all component parts thereof in accordance with procedures established by the appropriate Federal agency. In establishing a removal procedure, the appropriate Federal agency is authorized to establish a reasonable date by which aircraft removal operations must be complete and determine times and means of access to and from the downed aircraft.

(i) The appropriate Federal agency may waive the requirements of this paragraph upon a determination that the removal of downed aircraft would constitute an unacceptable risk to human life, or the removal of a downed aircraft would result in extensive resource damage, or the removal of a downed aircraft is otherwise impracticable or impossible.

(ii) Salvaging, removing, possessing or attempting to salvage, remove or possess any downed aircraft or component parts thereof is prohibited, except in accordance with a removal procedure established under this paragraph and as may be controlled by the other laws and regulations.

(4) The use of a helicopter in any area other than at designated landing areas pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit issued by the appropriate Federal agency, or pursuant to a memorandum of understanding between the appropriate Federal agency and another party, or involved in emergency or search and rescue operations is prohibited.
