
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 36 - TRANSPORTATION AND UTILITY SYSTEMS IN AND ACROSS, AND ACCESS INTO, CONSERVATION SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### ยง 36.11 Special access.
##### Temporary closures.

(2)(i) Temporary closures shall not be effective prior to notice and hearing in the vicinity of the area(s) directly affected by such closures and other locations as appropriate.

(ii) A temporary closure shall not exceed 12 months.

(3) Permanent closures shall be published by rulemaking in thewith a minimum public comment period of 60 days and shall not be effective until after a public hearing(s) is held in the affected vicinity and other locations as deemed appropriate by the appropriate Federal agency.

(4) Temporary and permanent closures shall be:

(i) Published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in Alaska and in a local newspaper, if available; posted at community post offices within the vicinity affected; made available for broadcast on local radio stations in a manner reasonably calculated to inform residents in the affected vicinity; and designated on a map which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the appropriate Federal agency and other places convenient to the public; or

(ii) Designated by posting the area with appropriate signs; or

(iii) Both.

(5) In determining whether to open an area that has previously been closed pursuant to the provisions of this section, the appropriate Federal agency shall provide notice in theand shall, upon request, hold a hearing in the affected vicinity and other locations as appropriate prior to making a final determination.

(6) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the appropriate Federal agency to restrict or limit uses of an area under other statutory authority.

(i) Except as otherwise specifically permitted under the provisions of this section, entry into closed areas or failure to abide by restrictions established under this section is prohibited.

(j) Any person convicted of violating any provision of the regulations contained in this section, or as the same may be amended or supplemented, may be punished by a fine or by imprisonment in accordance with the penalty provisions applicable to the area.
