
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 38 - PAY OF U.S. PARK POLICE - INTERIM GEOGRAPHIC ADJUSTMENTS
#### ยง 38.3 Administration of adjusted rates of pay.

(a) An employee is entitled to be paid the greater of-

(1) The adjusted annual rate of pay; or

(2) His or her rate of basic pay (including a local special salary rate, where applicable), without regard to any adjustment under this section.

(b) An adjusted rate of pay is considered basic pay for purposes of computing:

(1) Retirement deductions and benefits;

(2) Life insurance premiums and benefits;

(3) Premium pay;

(4) Severance pay;

(c) When an employee's official duty station is changed from a location not in an interim geographic adjustment area to a location in an interim geographic adjustment area, payment of the adjusted rate of pay begins on the effective date of the change in official duty station.

(d) An adjusted rate of pay is paid only for those hours for which an employee is in a pay status.

(e) An adjusted rate of pay shall be adjusted as of the effective date of any change in the applicable scheduled rate of pay.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, entitlement to an adjusted rate of pay under this subpart terminates on the date.

(1) An employee's official duty station is no longer located in an interim geographic adjustment area;

(2) An employee moves to a position not covered;

(3) An employee separates from Federal service; or

(4) An employee's local special salary rate exceeds his or her adjusted rate of pay.

(g) In the event of a change in the geographic area covered by a CMSA, the effective date of a change in an employee's entitlement to an adjusted rate of pay under this subpart shall be the first day of the first pay period beginning on or after the date on which a change in the definition of a CMSA is made effective.

(h) Payment of or an increase in, an adjusted rate of pay is not an equivalent increase in pay.

(i) An adjusted rate of pay is included in an employee's "total remuneration," and "straight time rate of pay," for the purpose of computations under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.

(j) Termination of an adjusted rate of pay under paragraph (f) of this section is not an adverse action.
