
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 2 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; RECORDS AND TESTIMONY
#### Subpart D - Timing of Responses to Requests
##### ยง 2.15 What is multitrack processing and how does it affect your request?

(a) Bureaus use processing tracks to distinguish simple requests from more complex ones on the basis of the estimated number of workdays needed to process the request.

(b) In determining the number of workdays needed to process the request, the bureau considers factors such as the number of pages involved in processing the request or the need for consultations.

(c) The basic processing tracks are assigned according to the expected complexity of the collection/review/production process of each request and designated as follows:

(1) Simple: requests in this track would generally take between one to five workdays to process;

(2) Normal: requests in this track would generally take between six to twenty workdays to process;

(3) Complex: requests in this track would generally take between twenty-one workdays and sixty workdays to process; or

(4) Extraordinary: requests in this track involve very complex processing challenges, which may include a large number of potentially responsive records, and would generally take over sixty workdays to process.

(d) Bureaus also have a specific processing track for requests that are granted expedited processing under the standards in ยง 2.20 of this part. These requests will be processed as soon as practicable.

(e) Bureaus must advise you of the track into which your request falls and, when appropriate, will offer you an opportunity to narrow your request so that it can be placed in a different processing track. If you request placement in a particular processing track but the bureau places you in a different processing track, the bureau will provide you with an explanation of why you were not placed in the processing track you requested.

(f) The use of multitrack processing does not alter the statutory deadline for a bureau to determine whether to comply with your FOIA request (see ยง 2.16 of this part).
