
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 49 - PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES PRESERVATION
#### Subpart B - Paleontological Resources Permitting; Requirements, Modifications, and Appeals
##### ยง 49.115 Where must a permit application be filed and what information must it include?

(a) A permit applicant must submit an application to the bureau that administers the Federal land where the proposed activity would be conducted. It is the permit applicant's responsibility to determine which bureau has jurisdiction, use that bureau's permit application form and process, and respond to that bureau's requests for information in a timely manner.

(b) Required information includes:

(1) The applicant's name, affiliation, and contact information.

(2) A current resume for the applicant and all other persons who oversee work under the permit, and any additional information demonstrating that the applicant possesses the qualifications required by ยง 49.110.

(3) A description, proposed start and end dates, and maps and other location information for the proposed work.

(4) Purpose, methods, and need for the proposed work, a scope of work or research plan, duration of the proposed work, logistical information, description of any paleontological resource collections that may be made under the permit, description of any existing collections known to have originated in this area, timetable for transfer to the proposed repository, and any additional information that will help the federal land manager identify the extent, nature, and potential impacts of the proposal.

(5) Bonding information, if required by the bureau.

(6) Name, location, and contact information of a proposed repository that agrees to receive the collection made under the permit.

(7) Anticipated costs of the permitted activity, including paleontological resource preparation and curation, and identification of the persons or organizations that will be responsible for these costs if the permit is approved;

(8) List of the applicant's past permits and record of compliance and non-compliance.

(9) An explanation of how the proposed collection would further paleontological knowledge or public education, or management of paleontological resources.
