
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 49 - PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES PRESERVATION
#### Subpart B - Paleontological Resources Permitting; Requirements, Modifications, and Appeals
##### ยง 49.125 What terms and conditions will a permit contain?

(a) Permit terms and conditions will include but are not limited to:

(1) Permittee and the approved repository named in the permit must not release, disclose, or share information about the specific location of paleontological resources unless the Federal land manager determines that the release, disclosure, or sharing is consistent with applicable policy.

(2) Permittee is responsible for maintaining a safe and secure paleontological site and for protecting paleontological and other resources from harm resulting from the work under the permit. Permittee is responsible for the actions of all persons working under the permit or invited by permittee to the site.

(3) Permittee, or a designee approved by the Federal land manager and named on the permit, must be onsite at all times when fieldwork is in progress and have a copy of the signed permit on hand.

(4) Permittee must comply with all vehicle or access restrictions, safety or environmental restrictions, local safety conditions or restrictions, and applicable Federal, State, and local laws.

(5) Permittee must acknowledge that the geographic area within the scope of the permit may be subject to other uses, and will take steps to avoid or minimize potential conflicts with such uses.

(6) Permittee will record specific location according to bureau requirements or permit terms and conditions.

(7) Permittee must report suspected or apparent resource damage or theft of paleontological or other resources to the Federal land manager as soon as possible, but not to exceed 48 hours after learning of the suspected or apparent damage or theft.

(8) Permittee must safeguard all paleontological resources collected under the permit and related data from the time of initial recovery until the collection is deposited with the approved repository named in the permit.

(9) Permittee acknowledges that all paleontological resources collected under the permit are Federal property.

(10) Permittee must deposit the collection in the approved repository named in the permit by the date specified in the permit and provide the bureau with a receipt for collections signed by an appropriate repository official who is not the permittee.

(11) A copy of the permit and other associated records must be kept with the collection during transport and provided to the approved repository named in the permit.

(12) If the permittee has not transferred the collection to the approved repository named in the permit by the date specified in the permit, the permittee must provide the Federal land manager a complete list and description of all paleontological resources collected and the current location of the paleontological resources.

(13) Permittee is responsible for the costs of the permitted activity, including fieldwork, data analysis, specimen preparation, report preparation, and initial curation of the collection and its associated records unless otherwise addressed in a separate written document.

(14) Permittees must submit annual reports, other reports, and copies of publications resulting from the collections made under the permit to the Federal land manager in accordance with bureau format and deadlines.

(15) Permittee must acknowledge the permitting bureau and the approved repository named in the permit in any report, publication, paper, news article, film, television program, or other media resulting from the work performed under the permit.

(16) The permit cannot be transferred.

(b) A permittee must continue to comply with the permit's terms and conditions in the event of permit modification, suspension, cancellation, revocation, or expiration unless specified otherwise by the Federal land manager.

(c) The Federal land manager may include in the permit additional terms and conditions necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including a bond where warranted.

(d) For activities approved on lands administered by BLM or Reclamation, the Federal land manager may provide permittees with a notice to proceed, which contains site-specific guidance and stipulations for the permittee.

(e) Persons who do not comply with the terms of a permit issued under this part may be subject to permit modification, suspension, revocation, and/or civil or criminal penalties.
