
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 49 - PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES PRESERVATION
#### Subpart B - Paleontological Resources Permitting; Requirements, Modifications, and Appeals
##### ยง 49.130 When and how may a permit be modified, suspended, revoked, or cancelled?
###### Notification of modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.

(e)(1) The Federal land manager will notify the permittee of the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation verbally or in writing. The Federal land manager will, as soon as practicable, confirm a verbal notification with a written notification. A written notification will be served on the permittee by certified mail, return receipt requested, or another verifiable delivery method, and will explain the reason for the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.

(2) In the case of a suspension, the written notification will also include the conditions or actions necessary for ending the suspension; the anticipated duration of the suspension or schedule for resolution of the conditions that led to the suspension; and a statement that the permit will be modified, revoked, or cancelled if the conditions that led to the suspension are not resolved.

(3) The written notification will inform the permittee how to appeal the modification, revocation, suspension, or cancellation.

(f) A modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation is in full force and effective immediately upon the permittee's receipt of the written notification of the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.
