
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 49 - PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES PRESERVATION
#### Subpart F - Civil Penalties
##### ยง 49.540 What procedures govern the DCHD hearing process initiated by a request for hearing on the final assessment?

(a) Upon receipt of a request for hearing under ยง 49.535(a)(2), DCHD will assign an administrative law judge to preside over the hearing process and issue a decision. DCHD will promptly notify the parties of the assignment. Thereafter, all pleadings, papers, and other documents in the hearing process must be filed directly with that judge, with copies served on the other party.

(b) An attorney from the Office of the Solicitor, DOI, will represent the bureau. The attorney will enter his or her appearance on behalf of the bureau and file all motions and correspondence between the bureau and the person who filed the request for hearing. Subsequently, any service upon the bureau must be made to the attorney.

(c) To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, the rules in 43 CFR part 4, subparts A and B, and in 43 CFR 4.422 through 4.437 will apply to the hearing process under this subpart.

(d) The hearing will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554. The bureau will have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the fact of the violation and the basis for the amount of the civil penalty. Upon completion of the hearing and incorporation of the hearing transcript in the record, the administrative law judge will issue a written decision in accordance with ยง 49.545 and serve it on the parties.
