
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 50 - PROCEDURES FOR REESTABLISHING A FORMAL GOVERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE NATIVE HAWAIIAN COMMUNITY
#### Subpart B - Criteria for Reestablishing a Formal Government-to-Government Relationship
##### ยง 50.12 What documentation is required to demonstrate how the Native Hawaiian community determined who could participate in ratifying the governing document?
###### Verifying that a potential voter is an HHCA Native Hawaiian.

(c)A potential voter may meet the definition of an HHCA Native Hawaiian by:

(1) Records of DHHL, including enumeration on a roll or other list prepared by DHHL, documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7);

(2) A sworn statement by the potential voter that he or she:

(i) Is enumerated on a roll or other list prepared by DHHL, documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7);

(ii) Is identified as eligible under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) in specified State or territorial records;

(iii) Is identified as eligible under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) in a Federal, state, or territorial court order; or

(iv) Can provide records documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) through generation-by-generation descent from a Native Hawaiian ancestor or ancestors;

(3) A sworn statement from a sponsor who meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section that the potential voter is an HHCA Native Hawaiian; or

(4) Other similarly reliable means of establishing eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7).
