
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 50 - PROCEDURES FOR REESTABLISHING A FORMAL GOVERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE NATIVE HAWAIIAN COMMUNITY
#### Subpart C - Process for Reestablishing a Formal Government-to-Government Relationship
##### The Secretary's Decision
###### ยง 50.44 How will the formal government-to-government relationship between the United States Government and the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity be implemented?

(a) Upon reestablishment of the formal government-to-government relationship, the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity will have the same formal government-to-government relationship under the United States Constitution and Federal law as the formal government-to-government relationship between the United States and a federally-recognized tribe in the continental United States, in recognition of the existence of the same inherent sovereign governmental authorities, subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The Native Hawaiian Governing Entity will be subject to the plenary authority of Congress to the same extent as are federally-recognized tribes in the continental United States.

(c) Absent Federal law to the contrary, any member of the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity presumptively will be eligible for current Federal Native Hawaiian programs, services, and benefits.

(d) The Native Hawaiian Governing Entity, its political subdivisions (if any), and its members will not be eligible for Federal Indian programs, services, and benefits unless Congress expressly and specifically has declared the Native Hawaiian community, the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity (or the official name stated in that entity's governing document), its political subdivisions (if any), its members, Native Hawaiians, or HHCA Native Hawaiians to be eligible.

(e) Reestablishment of the formal government-to-government relationship will not authorize the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity to sell, dispose of, lease, tax, or otherwise encumber Hawaiian home lands or interests in those lands, or to diminish any Native Hawaiian's rights, protections, or benefits, including any immunity from State or local taxation, granted by:

(1) The HHCA;

(2) The HHLRA;

(3) The Act of March 18, 1959, 73 Stat. 4; or

(4) The Act of November 11, 1993, secs. 10001-10004, 107 Stat. 1418, 1480-84.

(f) Reestablishment of the formal government-to-government relationship does not affect the title, jurisdiction, or status of Federal lands and property in Hawaii.

(g) Nothing in this part impliedly amends, repeals, supersedes, abrogates, or overrules any applicable Federal law, including case law, affecting the privileges, immunities, rights, protections, responsibilities, powers, limitations, obligations, authorities, or jurisdiction of any federally-recognized tribe in the continental United States.
