
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 402 - SALE OF LANDS IN FEDERAL RECLAMATION PROJECTS
##### Subpart A - Public Lands
###### ยง 402.2 What lands may be sold; method of sale; limit of acreage.

(a) Lands which may be sold under the Act of May 20, 1920 (41 Stat. 605; 43 U.S.C. 375) are lands, not otherwise reserved, which have been withdrawn in connection with a Federal irrigation project and improved at the expense of the reclamation fund for administration or other like purposes and which are no longer needed for project purposes. Not more than 160 acres of such lands may be sold to any one person. With one exception, such lands must be sold at public auction. If, however, a tract is appraised at not more than $300, it may be sold at private sale or at public auction and without regard to the provisions of the Act of May 20, 1920 respecting notice of publication and mode of sale.

(b) Lands which may be sold under the Act of May 16, 1930 (46 Stat. 367; 43 U.S.C. 424 through 424e) are tracts of temporarily or permanently unproductive land of insufficient size to support a family. A purchaser must be a resident farm owner or entryman on the Federal irrigation project where such lands are located and is permitted to purchase not more than 160 acres or an area which together with lands already owned or entered on such project, does not exceed 320 acres. A resident farm owner means a farm owner who is actually residing on the farm he owns, and a resident entryman means a homestead entryman who is actually residing on the land in his homestead entry. These lands may be sold either at public auction or at private sale.

(c) Lands which may be sold under the Act of March 31, 1950 (64 Stat. 39; 43 U.S.C. Sup., 375b through 375f) are tracts of land too small to be classed as farm units under the Federal reclamation laws. A purchaser must be a resident farm owner or entryman (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) on the Federal irrigation project where such lands are located and is permitted to purchase not more than 160 acres or an area which, together with land already owned or entered on such project, does not exceed 160 irrigable acres. These lands may be sold either at public auction or at private sale.
