
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 404 - RECLAMATION RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Overview
###### ยง 404.4 What are the goals of the program?
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,http://intra.gp.usbr.gov/resource_services/planning_process/principles_guidelines.pdf.

(c) Develop solutions to address rural water supply needs that are cost-effective, and that generate national net economic benefits as required under the "Economic Principles and Guidelines for Water and Related Land Resources" (Principles and Guidelines). The Principles and Guidelines, published in 1983 by the Water Resources Council pursuant to the Water Resources Planning Act of 1965 (Pub. L. 89-80) as amended, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The Principles and Guidelines are intended to ensure proper and consistent planning by Federal agencies in the formulation and evaluation of water and related land resources implementation studies. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the material must be available to the public and approved by the Director of the Federal Register. All approved material is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go toAlso, a copy of this publication may be obtained and inspected at: Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Building 67, Denver, CO 80225, Policy and Program Services, 303-445-2906 where copies are on file, or at the following website:

(d) Encourage partnerships among rural communities, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, states or political subdivisions of a state, water districts and associations, and other eligible entities, to address rural water supply issues; and

(e) Complement other existing programs and authorities that address rural water supply issues, and encourage collaboration between programs where appropriate.
