
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 413 - ASSESSMENT BY IRRIGATION DISTRICTS OF LANDS OWNED BY THE UNITED STATES, COLUMBIA BASIN PROJECT, WASHINGTON
##### ยง 413.3 Assessment of settlement lands.

(a) Settlement lands, which the United States is not under contract to sell or exchange at the time a district makes its annual levy of assessments shall not be assessed, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. If the United States thereafter contracts to sell or exchange such lands before the end of the irrigation season following the date of the annual levy, the purchaser will be required to make appropriate payment to the district for the water service which will be available to the purchaser during that irrigation season or the remaining portion thereof.

(b) From the date the United States contracts to sell or exchange settlement lands until title thereto passes to the purchaser under such contract, or until the rights of the purchaser are terminated or reacquired by the United States settlement lands shall be subject to assessment by a district on the same basis as other lands of like character within the operation of the district.

(c) Settlement lands, which the United States is not under contract to sell or exchange at the time a district makes its levy may be assessed by a district to the extent of the construction charge obligation installment required to be levied for the following year on such lands on account of the district's construction cost obligation to the United States. No other levies shall be made by a district against settlement lands in this status.

(d) While settlement lands which the United States has leased for use as irrigated lands and which the United States has not contracted to sell or exchange may not be assessed by a district except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, lessees shall pay the district the same amounts annually that would be required to be paid for water service if the lands were subject to assessment therefor, in addition to any assessment levied under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) Assessments made by a district against settlement lands while the United States is under contract to sell or exchange such lands shall be subject to all interest and penalties for delinquency as provided by the laws of Washington, but interest and penalties shall cease to accumulate on the date such contract is terminated or the purchaser's interest therein reacquired by the United States.

(f) No action shall be taken by or for a district to enforce any lien created as permitted under the regulations in this part by assessment foreclosure or other means that would purport to transfer any right in or title to any land or interests therein while title thereto is vested in the United States. Although the United States does not assume any obligation for the payment of such liens, it will in any conveyance of settlement lands covered thereby convey subject to those liens.
