
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 414 - OFFSTREAM STORAGE OF COLORADO RIVER WATER AND DEVELOPMENT AND RELEASE OF INTENTIONALLY CREATED UNUSED APPORTIONMENT IN THE LOWER DIVISION STATES
##### Subpart B - Storage and Interstate Release Agreements
###### ยง 414.3 Storage and Interstate Release Agreements.
####### Basic requirements for Storage and Interstate Release Agreements.

(a)Two or more authorized entities may enter into Storage and Interstate Release Agreements with the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Each agreement must meet all of the requirements of this section.

(1) The agreement must specify the quantity of Colorado River water to be stored, the Lower Division State in which it is to be stored, the entity(ies) that will store the water, and the facility(ies) in which it will be stored.

(2) The agreement must specify whether the water to be stored will be within the unused basic apportionment or unused surplus apportionment of the Storing State. For water from the Storing State's apportionment to qualify as unused apportionment available for storage under this part, the water must first be offered to all entitlement holders within the Storing State for purposes other than interstate transactions under proposed Storage and Interstate Release Agreements.

(3) The agreement must specify whether the water to be stored will be within the unused basic apportionment or unused surplus apportionment of the Consuming State. If the water to be stored will be unused apportionment of the Consuming State, the agreement must acknowledge that any unused apportionment of the Consuming State may be made available from the Consuming State by the Secretary to the Storing State only in accordance with Article II(B)(6) of the Decree. If unused apportionment from the Consuming State is to be stored under a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement, the Secretary will make the unused apportionment of the Consuming State available to the storing entity in accordance with the terms of a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement and will not make that water available to other entitlement holders.

(4) The agreement must specify the maximum quantity of ICUA that will be developed and made available for release to the consuming entity.

(5) The agreement must specify that ICUA may not be requested by the consuming entity in a quantity that exceeds the quantity of water that had been stored under a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement in the Storing State.

(6) The agreement must specify a procedure to verify and account for the quantity of water stored in the Storing State under a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement.

(7) The agreement must specify that, by a date certain, the consuming entity will:

(i) Notify the storing entity to develop a specific quantity of ICUA in the following calendar year;

(ii) Ask the Secretary to release that ICUA; and

(iii) Provide a copy of the notice or request to each Lower Division State.

(8) The agreement must specify that when the storing entity receives a request to develop a specific quantity of ICUA:

(i) It will ensure that the Storing State's consumptive use of Colorado River water will be decreased by a quantity sufficient to develop the requested quantity of ICUA; and

(ii) Any actions that the storing entity takes will be consistent with its State's laws.

(9) The agreement must include a description of:

(i) The actions the authorized entity will take to develop ICUA;

(ii) Potential actions to decrease the authorized entity's consumptive use of Colorado River water;

(iii) The means by which the development of the ICUA will be enforceable by the storing entity; and

(iv) The notice given to entitlement holders, including Indian tribes, of opportunities to participate in development of this ICUA.

(10) The agreement must specify that the storing entity will certify to the Secretary that ICUA has been or will be developed that otherwise would not have existed. The certification must:

(i) Identify the quantity, the means, and the entity by which ICUA has been or will be developed; and

(ii) Ask the Secretary to make the ICUA available to the consuming entity under Article II(B)(6) of the Decree and the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement.

(11) The agreement must specify a procedure for verifying development of the ICUA appropriate to the manner in which it is developed.

(12) The agreement must specify that the Secretary will release ICUA developed by the storing entity:

(i) In accordance with a request of the consuming entity;

(ii) In accordance with the terms of the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement;

(iii) Only for use by the consuming entity and not for use by other entitlement holders; and

(iv) In accordance with the terms of the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement, the BCPA, Article II(B)(6) of the Decree and all other applicable laws and executive orders.

(13) The agreement must specify that ICUA shall be released to the consuming entity only in the year and to the extent that ICUA is developed by the storing entity by reducing Colorado River water use within the Storing State.

(14) The agreement must specify that the Secretary will release ICUA only after the Secretary has determined that all necessary actions have been taken under this part.

(15) The agreement must specify that before releasing ICUA the Secretary must first determine that the storing entity:

(i) Stored water in accordance with the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement in quantities sufficient to support the development of the ICUA requested by the consuming entity; and

(ii) Certified to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the quantity of ICUA requested by the consuming entity has been developed in that year or will be developed in that year under ยง 414.3(f).

(16) The agreement must specify that the non-Federal parties to the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement will indemnify the United States, its employees, agents, subcontractors, successors, or assigns from loss or claim for damages and from liability to persons or property, direct or indirect, and loss or claim of any nature whatsoever arising by reason of the actions taken by the non-federal parties to the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement under this part.

(17) The agreement must specify the extent to which facilities constructed or financed by the United States will be used to store, convey, or distribute water associated with a Storage and Interstate Release Agreement.

(18) The agreement must include any other provisions that the parties deem appropriate.
