
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 414 - OFFSTREAM STORAGE OF COLORADO RIVER WATER AND DEVELOPMENT AND RELEASE OF INTENTIONALLY CREATED UNUSED APPORTIONMENT IN THE LOWER DIVISION STATES
##### Subpart B - Storage and Interstate Release Agreements
###### ยง 414.3 Storage and Interstate Release Agreements.
####### Requirement for contracts under the Boulder Canyon Project Act.

(e)Release or diversion of Colorado River water for storage under this part must be supported by a water delivery contract with the Secretary in accordance with Section 5 of the BCPA. The only exception to this requirement is storage of Article II(D) (of the Decree) water by Federal or tribal entitlement holders. The release or diversion of Colorado River water that has been developed or will be developed as ICUA under this part also must be supported by a Section 5 water delivery contract.

(1) An authorized entity may satisfy the requirement of this section through a direct contract with the Secretary. An authorized entity also may satisfy the Section 5 requirement of the BCPA, for purposes of this part, through a valid subcontract with an entitlement holder that is authorized by the Secretary to subcontract for the delivery of all or a portion of its entitlement.

(2) For storing entities that do not otherwise hold a contract or valid subcontract for the delivery of the water to be stored, the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement will serve as the vehicle for satisfying the Section 5 requirement for the release or diversion of that water.

(3) For consuming entities that do not otherwise hold a contract or valid subcontract for the delivery of the water to be released by the Secretary as ICUA, the Storage and Interstate Release Agreement will serve as the vehicle for satisfying the Section 5 requirement for the release or diversion of that water.
