
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 418 - OPERATING CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR THE NEWLANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT, NEVADA
##### Implementation
###### ยง 418.36 Incentives for additional long term conservation.

(a) As an incentive for the District to increase the efficiency of the delivery system beyond the expected efficiency of 65.7 percent (66.9 percent with full delivery) as shown in the Newlands Project Water Budget table, 1995 Example, the District will be allowed to store and use the Carson River portion of the saved water at its discretion, in accordance with Nevada State Law and this part.

(1) If the District is able to exceed its expected efficiency, the District may store in Lahontan Reservoir two-thirds (2/3) of the additional water saved. (The remaining one-third (1/3) of the water saved will remain in the Truckee River through reduced diversions to Lahontan Reservoir). This water will be considered incentive water saved from the Carson River and will not be counted as storage in determining diversions from the Truckee River or computing the target storage levels for Lahontan Reservoir under this part.

(2) For purposes of this part, incentive water is no longer considered Project water. The District may use the water for any purpose (e.g., wetlands, storage for recreation, power generation, shortage reduction) that is consistent with Nevada State Law and Federal Law. The water will be managed under the District's discretion and may be stored in Lahontan Reservoir until needed subject to the limitations in (a)(3) of this section.

(3) The amount of incentive water stored in Lahontan Reservoir will be reduced under the following conditions:

(i) There is a deficit created and remaining in Lahontan Reservoir from operations penalties in a prior year;

(ii) The District releases the water from the reservoir for its designated use;

(iii) During a spill of the reservoir, the amount of incentive water must be reduced by the amount of spill; and

(iv) At the discretion of the District, incentive water may be used to offset the precautionary drawdown adjustment to the Lahontan storage objective.

(v) At the end of each year, the amount of incentive water will be reduced by the incremental amount of evaporation which occurs as a result of the increased surface area of the reservoir due to the additional storage. The evaporation rate used will be either the net evaporation measured or the net historical average after precipitation is taken into account. The method of calculation will be agreed to by the District and the Bureau in advance of any storage credit.

(b) An example of this concept is:
