
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 419 - TRUCKEE RIVER OPERATING AGREEMENT
##### ยง 419.3 What general principles govern implementation of the TROA?

The following are general operational principles which provide a framework for the Administrator in implementing the TROA (incorporated by reference at ยง 419.1). These general principles are intended to be consistent with the specific provisions of TROA, but if they conflict with those specific provisions, the specific TROA provisions control. Operations should meet all of the following criteria:

(a) Be conducted, consistent with the TROA and applicable legal requirements, so that the available water supply in the Truckee River basin satisfies, to the maximum extent possible, multiple beneficial purposes, including municipal and industrial, irrigation, fish, wildlife, water quality, and recreation purposes.

(b) Satisfy vested and perfected rights to use the water of the Truckee River and its tributaries, to the extent that water rights are scheduled to be exercised, and to the extent that water is lawfully available. This includes, but is not limited to, the exercise of water rights under the provisions of the Orr Ditch Decree, except as expressly provided in the Settlement Act and the TROA.

(c) Maintain minimum releases and, to the extent practicable consistent with existing water rights and the TROA, maintain enhanced minimum releases, preferred stream flows, and reservoir recreation levels as described in Article Nine of the TROA.

(d) Comply with applicable flood control requirements for Prosser Creek, Stampede, Boca, and Martis Creek Reservoirs.

(e) Comply with all applicable dam safety requirements.

(f) Use the integrated schedules developed by the Administrator through coordination with the scheduling parties.

(g) Respond to declared Federal, State, or local water-related emergencies presenting a clear and immediate danger to public health, life, property, or essential public services involving an upset or other unexpected occurrence to facilities and resources addressed in the TROA.
