
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 422 - LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AT BUREAU OF RECLAMATION PROJECTS
##### Program Requirements
###### ยง 422.8 Requirements for law enforcement functions and programs.

The requirements in this section apply to Reclamation and to each law enforcement unit exercising Reclamation's law enforcement authority.

(a) The law enforcement program must provide for control, accountability, coordination, and clear lines of authority and communication. This organizational structure must apply both within the law enforcement units, and between the law enforcement units and the LEA or other personnel designated as responsible under the law enforcement contract or cooperative agreement.

(b) Only duly authorized law enforcement officers may discharge law enforcement duties.

(c) Each law enforcement contract or cooperative agreement must specifically name those individuals within the contracting agency who are authorized to exercise Reclamation law enforcement authority consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and the requirements of this part. A CLEO can authorize only duly authorized officers who meet the standards in ยง 422.7 to exercise law enforcement authority.

(d) Any uniform worn by law enforcement officers must display distinctive identification to ensure that the officer is:

(1) Distinguishable from non-law enforcement personnel; and

(2) Easily recognized by the public as a law enforcement officer.

(e) Officers investigating a violation of Federal law under a law enforcement contract or cooperative agreement with Reclamation will notify applicable Federal law enforcement authorities, as appropriate, pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 373b(d)(4).

(f) The LEA must:

(1) Establish an incident reporting system for incidents that occur on Reclamation lands; and

(2) Include the reporting requirements for incidents as an element of each contract or cooperative agreement.
