
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 423 - PUBLIC CONDUCT ON BUREAU OF RECLAMATION FACILITIES, LANDS, AND WATERBODIES
##### Subpart C - Rules of Conduct
###### ยง 423.23 Abandonment and impoundment of personal property.

(a) You must not abandon personal property of any kind in or on Reclamation facilities, lands, or waterbodies.

(b) You must not store or leave unattended personal property of any kind.

(1) Unattended personal property is presumed to be abandoned:

(i) After a period of 24 hours;

(ii) At any time after a posted closure takes effect under subpart B of this part 423; or

(iii) At any time for reasons of security, public safety, or resource protection.

(2) If personal property is presumed abandoned, an authorized official may impound it, store it, and assess a reasonable impoundment fee.

(3) The impoundment fee must be paid before the authorized official will return the impounded property to you.

(c) An authorized official may impound or destroy unattended personal property at any time if it:

(1) Interferes with safety, operation, or management of Reclamation facilities, lands, or waterbodies; or

(2) Presents a threat to persons or Reclamation project resources.

(d) An authorized official may dispose of abandoned personal property in accordance with the procedures contained in title 41 CFR and applicable Reclamation and Department of the Interior policy.
