
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 423 - PUBLIC CONDUCT ON BUREAU OF RECLAMATION FACILITIES, LANDS, AND WATERBODIES
##### Subpart C - Rules of Conduct
###### ยง 423.38 Operating vessels on Reclamation waters.

(a) You must comply with Federal, State, and local laws applicable to the operation of a vessel, other watercraft, or seaplane on Reclamation waters, and with any restrictions established by an authorized official.

(b) You must not operate a vessel, other watercraft, or seaplane in an area closed to the public.

(c) You must observe restrictions established by signs, buoys, and other regulatory markers.

(d) You must not operate a vessel, or knowingly allow another person to operate a vessel, in a reckless or negligent manner, or in a manner that endangers or is likely to endanger a person, property, natural resource, or cultural resource.

(e) You must not operate a vessel when impaired or intoxicated under the standards established by applicable State and local law.

(f) You must not occupy a vessel overnight, except where otherwise designated under applicable Federal, State, or local law, or where otherwise designated by an authorized official in a special use area.

(g) You must not use a vessel as a place of habitation or residence.

(h) You must remove your vessels from Reclamation lands and waters when not in actual use for a period of more than 24 hours, unless they are securely moored or stored at special use areas so designated by an authorized official.

(i) You must not attach or anchor a vessel to structures such as locks, dams, regulatory or navigational buoys, or other structures not designed for such purpose.

(j) You must display an international diver down, or inland diving flag in accordance with State and U.S. Coast Guard guidelines when operating a vessel involved in any underwater activities.

(k) You may engage in towing activities, including, but not limited to, waterskiing and tubing, only during daylight hours and subject to any applicable Federal, State, and local law.
