
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 423 - PUBLIC CONDUCT ON BUREAU OF RECLAMATION FACILITIES, LANDS, AND WATERBODIES
##### Subpart D - Authorization of Otherwise Prohibited Activities
###### § 423.50 How can I obtain permission for prohibited or restricted uses and activities?

(a) Authorized officials may issue permits to authorize activities on Reclamation facilities, lands, or waterbodies otherwise prohibited or restricted by §§ 423.16(a)(3), 423.26, 423.27, 423.29(f), 423.30(c), 423.33(d), and 423.35(d)(1), and may terminate or revoke such permits for non-use, non-compliance with the terms of the permit, violation of any applicable law, or to protect the health, safety, or security of persons, Reclamation assets, or natural or cultural resources.

(b) You may apply for permission to engage in activities otherwise prohibited or restricted by the sections listed in paragraph (a) of this section. You may apply to the authorized official responsible for the area in which your activity is to take place, and this authorized official may grant, deny, or establish conditions or limitations on this permission.

(c) You must pay all required fees and properly display applicable permits, passes, or receipts.

(d) You must not violate the terms and conditions of a permit issued by an authorized official. Any such violation is prohibited and may result in suspension or revocation of the permit, or other penalties as provided in subpart F of this part 423, or both.

(e) You must, upon request by a law enforcement officer, security guard, or other government employee or agent acting within the scope of their official duties, display any permit authorizing your presence or activity on Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies.
