
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.6 Leasing and full-cost pricing.
###### Calculating full-cost charges.

(h)Reclamation will calculate a district's full-cost charge using accepted accounting procedures and under the following conditions.

(1) The full-cost charge does not recover interest retroactively before October 12, 1982. But, interest on the unpaid balance does accrue from October 12, 1982, where the unpaid balance equals the irrigation allocated construction costs for facilities in service plus cumulative federally funded O&M deficits, less payments.

(2) The full-cost charge will be determined:

(i) As of October 12, 1982, for contracts entered into before that date regardless of amendments to conform to the discretionary provisions; and

(ii) At the time of contract execution for new and renewed contracts entered into on or after October 12, 1982.

(3) For repayment contracts, the full-cost charge will fix equal annual payments over the amortization period. For water service contracts, the full-cost charge will fix equal payments per acre-foot of projected water deliveries over the amortization period.

(4) If there are additional construction expenditures, or if the cost allocated to irrigation changes, then a new full-cost charge will be determined.

(5) Reclamation will notify the respective districts of changes in the full-cost charge at the time the district is notified of other payments due the United States.

(6) In determining full-cost charges, the following factors will be considered:
