
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### § 426.8 Nonresident aliens and foreign entities.
###### Exception to prior law entitlement application.

(d)(1) If a nonresident alien is a citizen of or a foreign entity is established in a country that has one of the following treaties with the United States or is a member of the listed organization, then that nonresident alien or foreign entity will not be restricted to prior law entitlements, provided the eligible landholding subject to the acreage limitation provisions is held indirectly:

(i) Friendship, Commerce and Navigation Treaty;

(ii) Bilateral Investment Treaty;

(iii) North American Free Trade Agreement;

(iv) Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement; or

(v) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

(2) Nonresident aliens and foreign entities that meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be required to provide proof of citizenship or documentation certifying the country in which the entity in question was established. Districts will retain such documentation in the landholder's file.

(3) If a nonresident alien or foreign entity meets the criteria listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and only holds eligible land subject to the acreage limitation provisions indirectly, then the nonresident alien may be treated as a United States citizen or the foreign entity may be treated as a domestic entity for purposes of application of the acreage limitation provisions for the land held indirectly.

(i) The nonresident alien or foreign entity may submit an irrevocable election to conform to the discretionary provisions as provided for in § 426.3(f). Conformance to the discretionary provisions through the submittal of a certification form will not be allowed as specified in § 426.3(f)(3).

(ii) Upon Reclamation's approval of the irrevocable election, a nonresident alien will be treated as having the ownership entitlement of a qualified recipient as described in § 426.5(b), for any land held indirectly. A foreign entity will be treated as a qualified recipient or a limited recipient as determined by the number of natural persons who are beneficiaries of the entity as specified by the definitions found in § 426.2, and the subsequent entitlement as provided in § 426.5(b) or (c), for any land held indirectly. The applicable nonfull-cost entitlements will be determined as described in § 426.6(b).

(iii) Reclamation will not approve irrevocable elections submitted by a nonresident alien or a foreign entity that holds any land directly in any prior law district.

(iv) Reclamation will not approve irrevocable elections submitted by a nonresident alien that is not a citizen of or foreign entity that has not been established in a country that has a treaty or international membership as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
