
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.11 Class 1 equivalency.
###### Determination of land classes.

(d)The extent and location of Class 1 land and land in lower land classes in a district have been, or will be, determined by Reclamation.

(1) Reclamation will take into account the influence of economic and physical factors upon the productive potential of the land lying within the district. These factors will include, but are not limited to the following and their effect on agricultural practices:

(i) The physical and chemical characteristics of the soil;

(ii) Topography;

(iii) Drainage status;

(iv) Costs of production;

(v) Land development costs;

(vi) Water quality and adequacy;

(vii) Elevation;

(viii) Crop adaptability; and

(ix) Length of growing season.

(2) Acceptable levels of detail for land classification studies to be utilized in making Class 1 equivalency determinations for a given district will be evaluated on the basis of the physical and agricultural economic characteristics of the area. For districts where the sole purpose of the land classification study is for a Class 1 equivalency determination, the level of detail of the land classification to be made will never be greater than that required to make a Class 1 equivalency determination.

(3) Reclamation will pay for at least a portion of the costs associated with the land classification study. The amount to be paid by Reclamation will be determined as follows:

(i) Reclamation has provided basic land classification data as part of the project development process since 1924. Accordingly, if Reclamation determines that acceptable land classification data are not available for making requested Class 1 equivalency determinations and if the project was authorized for construction since 1924, such data will be made available at Reclamation's expense; or

(ii) For each district located in projects authorized for construction prior to 1924, Reclamation will pay 50 percent of the costs and the district must pay 50 percent of the costs of new land classification studies required to make accurate Class 1 equivalency determinations.

(4) When basic land classification data are available for a district, but the district does not agree with the accuracy or asserts that the data have become outdated, the district may request, and Reclamation may perform, a reclassification under the authority contained in the Reclamation Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485), with the following conditions:

(i) The requesting district will pay 50 percent of the costs of performing such reclassifications and 100 percent of the costs of all other studies involved in the equivalency process; and

(ii) The results of such reclassifications will be binding upon the requesting district and Reclamation.
