
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.12 Excess land.
###### Changing excess and nonexcess land designations.

(b)(1) Landowners must file with the district(s) in which the land is located and with Reclamation the designation of excess and nonexcess land. The designation of land as excess is binding on the land. However, the landowner may change the designation under the following circumstances without Reclamation's approval if:

(i) The excess land becomes eligible to receive irrigation water because the landowner becomes subject to the discretionary provisions as provided in ยง 426.3;

(ii) A recordable contract is amended to remove excess land when the landowner's entitlement increases because the landowner becomes subject to the discretionary provisions as provided in paragraph (j)(5) of this section; or

(iii) The excess land becomes eligible to receive irrigation water as a result of Class 1 equivalency determinations, as provided in ยง 426.11.

(2) No other redesignation of excess land is allowable without the approval of Reclamation in accordance with established Reclamation procedures. Reclamation will not approve a redesignation request if:

(i) The purpose of the redesignation is for achieving, through repeated redesignation, an effective farm size in excess of that permitted by Federal reclamation law; or

(ii) The landowner sells some or all of his or her land that is currently classified as nonexcess.

(3) When a redesignation involves an exchange of nonexcess land for excess land, a landowner must make an equal exchange of acreage (or Class 1 equivalent acreage) through the redesignation.
