
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.12 Excess land.
###### If the status of land is changed by law or regulations.

(e)(1) If the district had a contract with Reclamation on or before October 12, 1982, and eligible land became excess because the landowner's entitlement changed from being based on a district-by-district basis to a westwide basis, then such formerly eligible land is ineligible until:

(i) The landowner places such land under recordable contract. The recordable contract does not need to include the sales price approval clause and application of the deed covenant provision will not be required; or

(ii) The landowner sells or transfers such land to an eligible buyer. The sales price does not need Reclamation's approval.

(2) If the district had a contract with Reclamation on or before October 12, 1982, and the landowner was a nonresident alien or a legal entity not established under State or Federal law, who directly held eligible land and such land is no longer eligible to receive water, then such formerly eligible land is ineligible until:

(i) The landowner places such land under recordable contract. The recordable contract does not need to include the sales price approval clause and application of the deed covenant provision will not be required; or

(ii) The landowner sells or transfers such land to an eligible buyer. The sales price does not need Reclamation's approval.

(3) If the district first entered a contract with Reclamation after October 12, 1982, and land would have been eligible before October 12, 1982, but is now ineligible because the landowner is a direct landholder and either a nonresident alien or a legal entity not established under State or Federal law, then such land that would have been eligible remains ineligible until:

(i) If the landowner acquired such land before the date of the district's contract:

(A) The landowner places such land under a recordable contract requiring Reclamation sales price approval; or

(B) Sells or transfers the land to an eligible buyer subject to Reclamation sales price approval; or

(ii) If the landowner acquired such land after the date of the district's contract, the landowner sells or transfers such land to an eligible buyer subject to Reclamation sales price approval.

(4) Eligible nonexcess land that is indirectly owned on or before December 18, 1996 by a nonresident alien or a legal entity not established under State or Federal law, and that becomes ineligible because of ยง 426.8 is ineligible until:

(i) The landowner places such land under recordable contract. The recordable contract does not need to include the sales price approval clause and application of the deed covenant provision will not be required; or

(ii) The landowner sells or transfers such land to an eligible buyer. The sales price does not need Reclamation's approval.
