
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.12 Excess land.
###### Deed covenants.

(i)(1) All land that is acquired from excess status after October 12, 1982, must have the following covenant (that runs with the land) placed in the deed transferring the land to the acquiring party in order for the land to be eligible to receive irrigation water except as otherwise specified in these regulations. The covenant must be in the deed regardless of whether or not the land was under recordable contract.

(2) A landholder may purchase or otherwise voluntarily acquire into nonexcess status, land subject to a deed covenant, at a price approved by Reclamation if the land is within the landholder's ownership entitlement.

(3) Upon expiration of the terms of the deed covenant, a landowner may resell such land at fair market value. A landowner may not sell more of such land in his or her lifetime than an amount equal to his or her ownership entitlement. Once the landowner reaches this limit, any additional excess land or land subject to a deed covenant the landowner acquires is ineligible to receive irrigation water, until such land is sold to an eligible buyer at a price approved by Reclamation.

(4) If a landholder acquires land burdened by such a deed covenant through involuntary foreclosure or similar involuntary process of law, conveyance in satisfaction of a debt, including, but not limited to, a mortgage, real estate contract, or deed of trust, inheritance, or devise, and is not the party whose excess ownership originally required placement of the deed covenant, then Reclamation must terminate the deed covenant upon the landholder's request. The provisions in paragraph (i)(1)(v) of this section and ยง 426.14(e) address termination of deed covenants for landholders whose excess ownership originally required placement of the deed covenant.
