
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 426 - ACREAGE LIMITATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### ยง 426.12 Excess land.
###### Procedures Reclamation follows in selling excess land.

(8)If Reclamation must sell excess land, the following procedures will be used:

(i) If Reclamation determines it to be necessary, a qualified surveyor will make a land survey. The United States will pay for the survey initially, but such costs will be added to the approved sales price for the land. The United States will be reimbursed for these costs from the sale of the land;

(ii) Reclamation will appraise the value of the excess land, in the manner prescribed by ยง 426.13, to determine the appropriate sales price. The United States will pay for the appraisal initially, but such costs will be added to the approved sales price for the land. The United States will be reimbursed for these costs from the sale of the land; and

(iii) Reclamation will advertise the sale of the property in farm journals and in newspapers within the county in which the land lies, and by other public notices as deemed advisable. The United States will pay for the advertisements and notices initially, but such costs will be added to the approved sales price for the land. The United States will be reimbursed for these costs from the sale of the land. The notices must state:

(A) The minimum acceptable sales price for the property (which equals the appraised value plus the cost of the appraisal, survey, and advertising);

(B) That Reclamation will sell the land by auction for cash, or on terms acceptable to the landowner, to the highest eligible bidder whose bid equals or exceeds the minimum acceptable sales price; and

(C) The date of the sale (which must not exceed 90 calendar days from the date of the advertisement and notices);

(iv) The proceeds from the sale of the land will be paid:

(A) First, to the landowner in the amount of the appraised value;

(B) Second, to the United States for costs of the survey, appraisal, advertising, etc.; and

(C) Third, any remaining proceeds will be credited to the Reclamation fund or other funds as prescribed by law; and

(v) Reclamation will close the sale of the excess land when parties complete all sales arrangements. Reclamation will execute a deed conveying the land to the purchaser. Reclamation will not require the purchaser to include a covenant in the deed, as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, that restricts any further resale of the land.
