
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Rules Applicable in Indian Affairs Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals to the Board of Indian Appeals in Probate Matters
###### § 4.324 How is the record on appeal prepared?

(a) On receiving a copy of the notice of appeal, the judge whose decision is being appealed must notify:

(1) The agency concerned; and

(2) The LTRO where the original record was filed under § 30.233 of this subtitle.

(b) If a transcript of the hearing was not prepared, the judge must have a transcript prepared and forwarded to the LTRO within 30 days after receiving a copy of the notice of appeal. The LTRO must include the original transcript in the record.

(c) Within 30 days of the receipt of the transcript, the LTRO must do the following:

(1) Prepare a table of contents for the record;

(2) Make two complete copies of the original record, including the transcript and table of contents;

(3) Certify that the record is complete;

(4) Forward the certified original record, together with the table of contents, to the Board by certified mail, electronic transmission in accordance with § 4.310(f), or other service with delivery confirmation; and

(5) Send one copy of the complete record to the agency.

(d) While the appeal is pending, the copies of the record will be available for inspection at the LTRO and the agency.

(e) Any party may file an objection to the record. The party must file his or her objection with the Board within 15 days after receiving the notice of docketing under § 4.325.

(f) For any of the following appeals, the judge must prepare an administrative record for the decision and a table of contents for the record and must forward them to the Board:

(1) An interlocutory appeal under § 4.28;

(2) An appeal from a decision under §§ 30.126 or 30.127 regarding modification of an inventory of an estate; or

(3) An appeal from a decision under § 30.124 determining that a person for whom a probate proceeding is sought to be opened is not deceased.
