
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter I - Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior
#### PART 429 - USE OF BUREAU OF RECLAMATION LAND, FACILITIES, AND WATERBODIES
##### Subpart H - Prohibited and Unauthorized Uses of Reclamation Land, Facilities, and Waterbodies
###### § 429.32 How will Reclamation address currently authorized existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses?

The administration and potential renewal of use authorizations, existing as of January 1, 2008, for private exclusive recreational or residential uses of Reclamation land, facilities, and waterbodies, as defined in this part, will be administered in accordance with the following requirements.

(a) Existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses must be compatible with public needs and with authorized project purposes, project operations, safety, and security. A review of whether existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses is compatible with public needs and authorized project purposes, project operations, safety, and security will be made at least once every 20 years, except where part 21 requires a more frequent review.

(1) Reclamation will only make final determinations regarding the compatibility of existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses with public needs or project purposes through a public process involving one or more public meetings. Examples of such public processes include resource management plan development, recreation demand analysis studies, and project feasibility studies.

(2) Reclamation will notify in writing all potentially affected holders of existing authorizations for private exclusive recreational or residential use regarding the opportunities for public participation when any action is proposed that could lead to an incompatibility determination.

(3) Determinations that existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses are not compatible with public needs will be published in the

(4) If a determination of incompatibility with public needs is made, affected use authorizations may be extended up to 5 years from the date of publication in theif the Regional Director determines that such extension is necessary to the fair and efficient administration of this part.

(b) Reclamation will conduct a compliance review of all existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses at least once every 5 years to determine if the following criteria are being met:

(1) Environmental requirements;

(2) Public health and safety requirements; and

(3) Current in financial obligations to Reclamation.

(c) Reclamation will provide the holder of the use authorization with a written report of the results of the compliance review by certified mail, return receipt requested. The report will state whether the existing use meets the required criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section and will list any deficiencies that can be corrected. A minimum of 90 days will be provided to make corrections identified in the report. Failure to correct the deficiencies within the time provided in the report will result in termination of the use authorization.

(d) In addition to the compliance reviews described above, Reclamation will initiate a review of the existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses for compliance with the required criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section at least 6 months prior to the expiration date of the existing use authorization. Reclamation will provide the holder of the use authorization with a written report of the results of the compliance review results by certified mail, return receipt requested. The report will state whether the existing use meets the required criteria under this section as applicable and will list any deficiencies that must be corrected prior to a renewal of the use authorization. A minimum of 90 days will be provided prior to the expiration of the permit to make corrections identified in the report. In addition, this report will serve as a reminder that it is time to seek renewal of the use authorization and provide information on the process that needs to be followed.

(e) Reclamation must be notified in advance by certified mail, return receipt requested, of any transfers of use authorizations for existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses.

(f) Any renewal of use authorizations for existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses of Reclamation land, facilities, and waterbodies will not exceed 20-year terms. Any such renewals will be subject to the periodic reviews described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and these reviews could potentially result in the termination of the use agreement prior to the end of the term of years.

(g) Upon non-renewal or termination of a use authorization for an existing private exclusive recreational or residential use of Reclamation land, facilities, and waterbodies, the grantee will remove any improvements from the site within 90 days from the date of termination or non-renewal of the use authorization. The grantee will return the property as near as possible to its original undisturbed condition. Any property not removed within 90 days may be removed by Reclamation at the expense of the prior grantee.

(h) Renewal decisions of use authorizations for existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses located on Reclamation land, facilities, and waterbodies will be made by the Regional Director. If the Regional Director determines that deficiencies identified under paragraph (d) of this section cannot be corrected prior to the expiration date of the use authorization, the use authorization may be extended for a period not to exceed 6 months.

(i) Requests for the renewal, extension, or reissuance of use authorizations for private exclusive recreational or residential uses that expired and were not renewed prior to the effective date of this part and were not renewed or are subsequently not renewed or terminated under the procedures of this section will be considered requests for uses prohibited under § 429.31 and will not be approved. Conversely, requests for the renewal, extension, or reissuance of use authorizations for private exclusive recreational or residential uses that were in existence on the effective date of these regulations and that are in compliance with all requirements of the applicable use authorization at the time a request is made will not be considered requests for uses prohibited under § 429.31. Requests for renewal, extension, or reissuance of use authorizations for private exclusive recreational or residential uses must be made by submitting Form 7-2540 as stated under § 429.10(b) and in compliance with subpart D of this part.

(j) Unauthorized existing private exclusive recreational or residential uses will be administered under §§ 429.31 and 429.33 and part 423 of this chapter.
