
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter A - General Management (1000)
##### PART 1780 - COOPERATIVE RELATIONS
###### Subpart 1784 - Advisory Committees
####### ยง 1784.6-2 Resource advisory councils - optional features.
######## Subgroups.

(iv)Local rangeland resource teams may be formed within the geographical area for which a resource advisory council provides advice, down to the level of a single allotment. These teams may be formed by a resource advisory council on its own motion or in response to a petition by local citizens. Rangeland resource teams will be formed for the purpose of providing local level input to the resource advisory council regarding issues pertaining to the administration of grazing on public land within the area for which the rangeland resource team is formed.

(A) Rangeland resource teams will consist of 5 members selected by the resource advisory council. Membership will include 2 persons holding Federal grazing permits or leases. Additional members will include 1 person representing the public-at-large, 1 person representing a nationally or regionally recognized environmental organization, and 1 person representing national, regional, or local wildlife or recreation interests. Persons selected by the council to represent the public-at-large, environmental, and wildlife or recreation interests may not hold Federal grazing permits or leases. At least 1 member must be selected from the membership of the resource advisory council.

(B) The resource advisory council will be required to select rangeland resource team members from nominees who qualify by virtue of their knowledge or experience of the lands, resources, and communities that fall within the area for which the team is formed. All nominations must be accompanied by letters of recommendation from the groups or interests to be represented.

(C) All members of rangeland resource teams will attend a course of instruction in the management of rangeland ecosystems that has been approved by the BLM State Director. Rangeland resource teams will have opportunities to raise any matter of concern with the resource advisory council and to request that BLM form a technical review team, as described below, to provide information and options to the council for their consideration.

(D) Technical review teams can be formed by the BLM authorized officer on the motion of BLM or in response to a request by the resource advisory council or a rangeland resource team. The purpose of such teams is to gather and analyze data and develop recommendations to aid the decisionmaking process, and functions will be limited to tasks assigned by the authorized officer. Membership will be limited to Federal employees and paid consultants. Members will be selected based upon their knowledge of resource management or their familiarity with the specific issues for which the technical review team has been formed. Technical review teams will terminate upon completion of the assigned task.
