
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter A - General Management (1000)
##### PART 1780 - COOPERATIVE RELATIONS
###### Subpart 1784 - Advisory Committees
####### ยง 1784.6-2 Resource advisory councils - optional features.
######## Subgroups.

(iv)Resource advisory councils may form more local teams to provide general local level input to the resource advisory council on issues necessary to the successful functioning of the council. Such subgroups can be formed in response to a petition from local citizens or on the motion of the resource advisory council. Membership in any subgroup formed for the purpose of providing general input to the resource advisory council on grazing administration should be constituted in accordance with provisions for membership in ยง 1784.6-1(c).

(A) Technical review teams can be formed by the BLM authorized officer on the motion of BLM or in response to a request by the resource advisory council or a local team. The purpose of such technical review teams is to gather and analyze data and develop recommendations to aid the decisionmaking process, and functions will be limited to tasks assigned by the authorized officer. Membership will be limited to Federal employees and paid consultants. Members will be selected based upon their knowledge of resource management or their familiarity with the specific issues for which the technical review team has been formed. Technical review teams will terminate upon completion of the assigned task.

(B) [Reserved]
