
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2090 - SPECIAL LAWS AND RULES
###### Subpart 2091 - Segregation and Opening of Lands
####### ยง 2091.3-1 Segregation.
######## et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(e)(1) The Bureau of Land Management may segregate, if it finds it necessary for the orderly administration of the public lands, lands included in a right-of-way application under 43 CFR subpart 2804 for the generation of electrical energy from wind or solar sources. In addition, the Bureau of Land Management may also segregate lands that it identifies for potential rights-of-way for electricity generation from wind or solar sources when initiating a competitive process for solar or wind development on particular lands. Upon segregation, such lands will not be subject to appropriation under the public land laws, including location under the Mining Law of 1872, (30 U.S.C. 22), but would remain open under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 (30 U.S.C. 181) or the Materials Act of 1947 (30 U.S.C. 601). The BLM will effect a segregation by publishing anotice that includes a description of the lands being segregated. The BLM may effect segregation in this way for both pending and new right-of-way applications.

(2) The effective date of segregation is the date of publication of the notice in theThe segregation terminates consistent with subpart 2091.3-2 and the lands automatically open on the date that is the earliest of the following:

(i) When the BLM issues a decision granting, granting with modifications, or denying the application for a right-of-way;

(ii) Automatically at the end of the segregation period stated in thenotice initiating the segregation, or

(iii) Upon publication of anotice terminating the segregation and opening the lands in question.

(3) The segregation period may not exceed 2 years from the date of publication in theof the notice initiating the segregation, unless the State Director determines and documents in writing, prior to the expiration of the segregation period, that an extension is necessary for the orderly administration of the public lands. If the State Director determines an extension is necessary, the Bureau of Land Management will extend the segregation for up to 2 years by publishing a notice in theprior to the expiration of the initial segregation period. Segregations under this part may only be extended once and the total segregation period may not exceed 4 years.
