
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2200 - EXCHANGES: GENERAL PROCEDURES
###### Subpart 2200 - Exchanges - General
####### ยง 2200.0-7 Scope.
######## et seq.,

(b) The rules contained in this part apply to all land exchanges, made under the authority of the Secretary, involving Federal lands, as defined in 43 CFR 2200.0-5(i). Apart from the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (FLPMA), as amended, 43 U.S.C. 1701there are a variety of statutes, administered by the Secretary, that authorize land trades which may include Federal lands, as for example, certain National Wildlife Refuge System and National Park System exchange acts. The procedures and requirements associated with or imposed by any one of these other statutes may not be entirely consistent with the rules in this part, as the rules in this part are intended primarily to implement the FLPMA land exchange provisions. If there is any such inconsistency, and if Federal lands are involved, the inconsistent procedures or statutory requirements will prevail. Otherwise, the regulations in this part will be followed. The rules in this part also apply to the exchange of interests in either Federal or non-Federal lands including, but not limited to, minerals, water rights, and timber.

(c) The application of these rules to exchanges made under the authority of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1621) or the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3192), shall be limited to those provisions that do not conflict with the provisions of these Acts.

(d) Pending exchanges initiated prior to December 17, 1993 shall proceed in accordance with this rule unless:

(1) In the judgment of the authorized officer, it would be more expeditious to continue following the procedures in effect prior to December 17, 1993; or

(2) A binding agreement to exchange was in effect prior to December 17, 1993; and

(3) To proceed as provided in paragraphs (d) (1) or (2) of this section would not be inconsistent with applicable law.

(e) Exchanges proposed by persons holding fee title to coal deposits that qualify for exchanges under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1260(b)(5)) and as provided in subpart 3436 of this title shall be processed in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in subpart 3436 of this title.
