
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2200 - EXCHANGES: GENERAL PROCEDURES
###### Subpart 2201 - Exchanges - Specific Requirements
####### ยง 2201.8 Title standards.
######## Title encumbrances,Non-Federal lands.

(c)-(1)(i) Title to the non-Federal lands must be acceptable to the United States. For example, encumbrances such as taxes, judgment liens, mortgages, and other objections or title defects shall be eliminated, released, or waived in accordance with requirements of the preliminary title opinion of the Office of the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior or the Department of Justice, as appropriate.

(ii) The United States shall not accept lands in which there are reserved or outstanding interests that would interfere with the use and management of land by the United States or would otherwise be inconsistent with the authority under which, or the purpose for which, the lands are to be acquired. Reserved interests of the non-Federal landowner are subject to agreed upon covenants or conditions included in the conveyance documents.

(iii) Any personal property owned by the non-Federal party that is not a part of the exchange proposal should be removed by the non-Federal party prior to acceptance of title by the United States, unless the authorized officer and the non-Federal party to the exchange previously agree upon a specified period to remove the personal property. If the personal property is not removed prior to acceptance of title or within the otherwise prescribed time, it shall be deemed abandoned and shall become vested in the United States.

(iv) The exchange parties must reach agreement on the arrangements for the relocation of any tenants. Qualified tenants occupying non-Federal lands affected by a land exchange may be entitled to benefits under 49 CFR 24.2. Unless otherwise provided by law or regulation (49 CFR 24.101(a)(1)), relocation benefits are not applicable to owner-occupants involved in exchanges with the United States provided the owner-occupants are notified in writing that the non-Federal lands are being acquired by the United States on a voluntary basis.
