
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Special Rules Applicable to Public Land Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals Procedures; General
###### ยง 4.401 Documents.
####### Service of documents.

(c)(1) A party that files any document under this subpart must serve a copy of it concurrently as follows:

(i) On the appropriate official of the Office of the Solicitor under ยง 4.413(c) and (d);

(ii) For a notice of appeal and statement of reasons, on each person named in the decision under appeal; and

(iii) For all other documents, on each party to the appeal (including intervenors).

(2) Service on a person or party known to be represented by counsel or other designated representative must be made on the representative.

(3) Service must be made at the last address of record of the person or party (if unrepresented) or the representative, unless the person, party, or representative has notified the serving party of a subsequent change of address.

(4) Service may be made as shown in the following table:

(5) At the conclusion of any document that a party must serve under the regulations in this subpart, the party must sign a written statement that:

(i) Certifies that service has been or will be made in accordance with the applicable rules; and

(ii) Specifies the date and manner of service.

(6) Service that complies with paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section is complete as shown in the following table:

(7) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, delivery under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section is deemed to take place 5 business days after the document was sent. A document is considered sent when it is given to the U.S. Postal Service (or deposited in one of its mailboxes), properly addressed and with proper postage affixed, or when it is given to a delivery service (or deposited in one of its receptacles), properly addressed and with the delivery cost prepaid.
