
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2300 - LAND WITHDRAWALS
###### Subpart 2310 - Withdrawals, General: Procedure
####### § 2310.1-2 Submission of applications.

(a) Applications for the making, modification or extension of a withdrawal shall be submitted for filing, in duplicate, in the proper Bureau of Land Management office, as set forth in § 1821.2-1 of this title, except for emergency withdrawal requests and applications that are classified for national security reasons. Requests for emergency withdrawals and applications that are classified for national security reasons shall be submitted, in duplicate, in the Office of the Secretary, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240.

(b) Before the authorized officer can take action on a withdrawal proposal, a withdrawal application in support thereof shall be submitted. The application may be submitted simultaneously with the making of a withdrawal proposal, in which case only the notice required by § 2310.3-1(a) of this title, referencing both the application and the withdrawal proposal, shall be published.

(c) No specific form is required, but, except as otherwise provided in § 2310.3-6(b) of this title, the application shall contain at least the following information:

(1) The name and address of the applicant. Where the organization intending to use the lands is different from the applicant, the name and address of such using agency shall also be included.

(2) If the applicant is a department or agency other than the Department of the Interior or an office thereof, a statement of the delegation or delegations of authority of the official acting on behalf of the department or agency submitting the application, substantiating that the official is empowered to act on behalf of the head of the department or agency in connection with all matters pertaining to the application.

(3) If the lands which are subject to an application are wholly or partially under the administration of any department or agency other than the Department of the Interior, the Secretary shall make or modify a withdrawal only with the consent of the head of the department or agency concerned, except in the case of an emergency withdrawal. In such case, a copy of the written consent shall accompany the application. The requirements of section (e) of E.O. 10355 (17 FR 4831), shall be complied with in those instances where the Order applies.

(4) The type of withdrawal action that is being requested (See § 2300.0-5(h) of this title) and whether the application pertains to the making, extension or modification of a withdrawal.

(5) A description of the lands involved in the application, which shall consist of the following:

(i) A legal description of the entire land area that falls within the exterior boundaries of the affected area and the total acreage of such lands;

(ii) A legal description of the lands, Federal or otherwise, within the exterior boundaries that are to be excepted from the requested action, and after deducting the total acreage of all the excepted lands, the net remaining acreage of all Federal lands (as well as all non-Federal lands which, if they should be returned to or should pass to Federal ownership, would become subject to the withdrawal) within the exterior boundaries of the affected land areas;

(iii) In the case of a national defense withdrawal which can only be made by an Act of Congress, sections 3(2) and 3(3) of the Act of February 28, 1958 (43 U.S.C. 157 (2), (3)) shall be complied with in lieu of paragraphs (c)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(6) If the application is for a withdrawal that would overlap, or that would add lands to one or more existing withdrawals, the application shall also contain:

(i) An identification of each of the existing withdrawals, including the project name, if any, the date of the withdrawal order, the number and type of order, if known, or, in lieu of the foregoing, a copy of the order;

(ii) As to each existing withdrawal that would be overlapped by the requested withdrawal, the total area and a legal description of the area that would be overlapped; and

(iii) The total acreage, Federal or otherwise, that would be added to the existing withdrawal, if the new application is allowed.

(7) The public purpose or statutory program for which the lands would be withdrawn. If the purpose or program for which the lands would be withdrawn is classified for national security reasons, a statement to that effect shall be included; but, if at all possible, a general description of the use to which the lands would be devoted, if the requested withdrawal is allowed, should be included. In the case of applications that are not classified for national security reasons, an analysis of the manner in which the lands as well as their natural resources and resource values would be used to implement the purpose or program shall be provided.

(8) The extent to which the lands embraced in the application are requested to be withheld from settlement, sale, location or entry under the public land laws, including the mining laws, together with the extent to which, and the time during which, the lands involved in the application would be temporarily segregated in accordance with § 2310.2 of this subpart.

(9) The type of temporary land use that, at the discretion of the authorized officer, may be permitted or allowed during the segregation period, in accordance with § 2310.2 of this subpart.

(10) An analysis and explanation of why neither a right-of-way under section 507 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1767), nor a cooperative agreement under sections 302(b) (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)) and 307(b) (43 U.S.C. 1737(b)) of the act would adequately provide for the proposed use.

(11) The duration of the withdrawal, with a statement in justification thereof (see § 2310.3-4 of this title). Where an extension of an existing withdrawal is requested, its duration may not exceed the duration of the existing withdrawal.

(12) A statement as to whether any suitable alternative sites are available for the proposed use or for uses which the requested withdrawal action would displace. The statement shall include a study comparing the projected costs of obtaining each alternative site in suitable condition for the intended use, as well as the projected costs of obtaining and developing each alternative site for uses that the requested withdrawal action would displace.

(13) A statement as to whether water will or will not be needed to fulfill the purpose of the requested withdrawal action.

(14) The place where records relating to the application can be examined by interested persons.

(d) Except in the case of an emergency withdrawal, if the preceding application requirements have not been met, or if an application seeks an action that is not within the scope of the Secretary's authority, the application may be rejected by the authorized officer as a defective application.
