
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2300 - LAND WITHDRAWALS
###### Subpart 2310 - Withdrawals, General: Procedure
####### § 2310.1-3 Submission of withdrawal petitions.

(a) Withdrawal petitions shall be submitted to the Director, Bureau of Land Management, for transmittal to the Secretary.

(b) No specific form is required, but the petition shall contain at least the following information:

(1) The office originating the petition;

(2) The type and purpose of the proposed withdrawal action (See § 2300.0-5(h) of this title) and whether the petition pertains to the making, extension or modification of a withdrawal;

(3) A legal description of the entire land area that falls within the exterior boundaries affected by the petition, together with the total acreage of such lands, and a map of the area;

(4) The extent to which and the time during which any public lands that may be involved in the petition would be temporarily segregated and the temporary land uses that may be permitted during the segregation period, in accordance with § 2310.2 of this title; and

(5) A preliminary identification of the mineral resources in the area.

(c) Except in the case of petitions seeking emergency withdrawals, if a petition is submitted simultaneously with a withdrawal application, the information requirements pertaining to withdrawal applications (See § 2310.1-2 of this title), shall supersede the requirements of this section.

(d) If a petition seeks an emergency withdrawal under the provisions of section 204(e) of the act, the petition shall be filed simultaneously with an application for withdrawal. In such instances, the petition/application shall provide as much of the information required by §§ 2310.1-2(c) and 2310.3-2(b) of this title as is available to the petitioner when the petition is submitted.

(e) Upon the approval by the Secretary of a petition for withdrawal, the petition shall be considered as a Secretarial proposal for withdrawal, and notice of the withdrawal proposal shall be published immediately in thein accordance with § 2310.3-1(a) of this title. If a petition which seeks an emergency withdrawal is approved by the Secretary, the publication and notice provisions pertaining to emergency withdrawals shall be applicable. (See § 2310.5 of this title.)
