
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2300 - LAND WITHDRAWALS
###### Subpart 2310 - Withdrawals, General: Procedure
####### ยง 2310.2-1 Termination of the segregative effect of withdrawal applications or withdrawal proposals.

(a) The publication in theof an order allowing a withdrawal application, in whole or in part, shall terminate the segregative effect of the application as to those lands withdrawn by the order.

(b) The denial of a withdrawal application, in whole or in part, shall result in the termination of the segregative effect of the application or proposal as to those lands where the withdrawal is disallowed. Within 30 days following the decision to disallow the application or proposal, in whole or in part, the authorized officer shall publish a notice in thespecifying the reasons for the denial and the date that the segregative period terminated. The termination date of the segregation period shall be noted promptly on the public land status records on or before the termination date.

(c) The cancellation, in whole or in part, of a withdrawal application or a withdrawal proposal shall result in the termination of the segregative effect of the application or proposal, as to those lands deleted from the application or proposal. The authorized officer shall publish a notice in thewithin 30 days following the date of receipt of the cancellation, specifying the date that the segregation terminated. The termination date of the segregation shall be noted promptly on the public land status records. If the cancellation applies to only a portion of the public lands that are described in the withdrawal application or withdrawal proposal, then the lands that are not affected by the cancellation shall remain segregated.

(d) The segregative effect resulting from the publication on or after October 21, 1976, of anotice of the submission of a withdrawal application or the making of a withdrawal proposal shall terminate 2 years after the publication date of thenotice unless the segregation is terminated sooner by other provisions of this section. A notice specifying the date and time of termination shall be published in theby the authorized officer 30 days in advance of the termination date. The public land status records shall be noted as to the termination date of the segregation period on or before the termination date. Such a termination shall not affect the processing of the withdrawal application.

(e) The segregative effect resulting from the submission of a withdrawal application or withdrawal proposal before October 21, 1976, shall terminate on October 20, 1991, unless the segregation is terminated sooner by other provisions of this part. A notice specifying the date and time of termination shall be published in theby the authorized officer 30 days in advance of October 20, 1991. The public land status records shall be noted as to the termination date of the segregation period on or before October 20, 1991.
