
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2300 - LAND WITHDRAWALS
###### Subpart 2310 - Withdrawals, General: Procedure
####### ยง 2310.3-2 Development and processing of the case file for submission to the Secretary.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in ยง 2310.3-6(b) of this title, the information, studies, analyses and reports identified in this paragraph that are required by applicable statutes, or which the authorized officer determines to be required for the Secretary or the Congress to make a decision or recommendation on a requested withdrawal, shall be provided by the applicant. The authorized officer shall assist the applicant to the extent the authorized officer considers it necessary or appropriate to do so. The qualifications of all specialists utilized by either the authorized officer or the applicant to prepare the information, studies, analyses and reports shall be provided.

(b) The information, studies, analyses and reports which, as appropriate, shall be provided by the applicant shall include:

(1) A report identifying the present users of the lands involved, explaining how the users will be affected by the proposed use and analyzing the manner in which existing and potential resource uses are incompatible with or conflict with the proposed use of the lands and resources that would be affected by the requested action. The report shall also specify the provisions that are to be made for, and an economic analysis of, the continuation, alteration or termination of existing uses. If the provisions of ยง 2310.3-5 of this title are applicable to the proposed withdrawal, the applicant shall also furnish a certification that the requirements of that section shall be satisfied promptly if the withdrawal is allowed or authorized.

(2) If the application states that the use of water in any State will be necessary to fulfill the purposes of the requested withdrawal, extension or modification, a report specifying that the applicant or using agency has acquired, or proposes to acquire, rights to the use of the water in conformity with applicable State laws and procedures relating to the control, appropriation, use and distribution of water, or whether the withdrawal is intended to reserve, pursuant to Federal law, sufficient unappropriated water to fulfill the purposes of the withdrawal. Water shall be reserved pursuant to Federal law for use in carrying out the purposes of the withdrawal only if specifically so stated in the relevant withdrawal order, as provided in ยง 2310.3-3(b) of this title and only to the extent needed for the purpose or purposes of the withdrawal as expressed in the withdrawal order. The applicant shall also provide proof of notification of the involved State's department of water resources when a land use needed to carry out the purposes of the requested withdrawal will involve utilization of the water resources in a State. As a condition to the allowance of an order reserving water, the applicant shall certify to the Secretary that it shall quantify the amount of water to be reserved by the order.

(3) An environmental assessment, an environmental impact statement or any other documents as are needed to meet the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)), and the regulations applicable thereto. The authorized officer shall participate in the development of environmental assessments or impact statements. The applicant shall designate the Bureau of Land Management as a cooperating agency and shall comply with the requirements of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality. The Bureau of Land Management shall, at a minimum, independently evaluate and review the final product. The following items shall either be included in the assessment or impact statement, or they may be submitted separately, with appropriate cross references.

(i) A report on the identification of cultural resources prepared in accordance with the requirements of 36 CFR part 800, and other applicable regulations.
