
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Special Rules Applicable to Public Land Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals Procedures; General
###### ยง 4.403 Finality of decision; reconsideration.

(a) The Board's decision is final agency action and is effective on the date it is issued, unless the decision itself provides otherwise.

(b) The Board may reconsider its decision in extraordinary circumstances.

(1) A party that wishes to request reconsideration of a Board decision must file a motion for reconsideration with the Board within 60 days after the date of the decision.

(2) The motion may include a request that the Board stay the effectiveness of its decision.

(3) Any other party to the original appeal may file a response to a motion for reconsideration with the Board within 21 days after service of the motion, unless the Board orders otherwise.

(4) A motion for reconsideration will not stay the effectiveness or affect the finality of the Board's decision unless so ordered by the Board for good cause.

(5) A party does not need to file a motion for reconsideration in order to exhaust its administrative remedies.

(c) A motion for reconsideration must:

(1) Specifically describe the extraordinary circumstances that warrant reconsideration; and

(2) Include all arguments and supporting documents.

(d) Extraordinary circumstances that may warrant granting reconsideration include, but are not limited to:

(1) Error in the Board's interpretation of material facts;

(2) Recent judicial development;

(3) Change in Departmental policy; or

(4) Evidence that was not before the Board at the time the Board's decision was issued and that demonstrates error in the decision.

(e) If the motion cites extraordinary circumstances under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, it must explain why the evidence was not provided to the Board during the course of the original appeal.

(f) The Board will not grant a motion for reconsideration that:

(1) Merely repeats arguments made in the original appeal, except in cases of demonstrable error; or

(2) Seeks relief from the legally binding consequences of a statute or regulation.
