
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2420 - MULTIPLE-USE MANAGEMENT CLASSIFICATIONS
###### Subpart 2420 - Criteria for Multiple-Use Management Classifications
####### ยง 2420.2 Criteria.
######## et seq.

(7) Protection of frail lands, conservation of productive soils and water supplies, and prevention of damage and loss due to excessive runoff, flooding, salination, and siltation, such as the Soil and Moisture Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 590a) and section 2 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315a).

(c) Preservation of public values that would be lost if the land passed from Federal ownership (43 U.S.C. 1411-1418) such as where

(1) The lands are needed to protect or enhance established Federal programs, by such means as provision of buffer zones, control of access, maintenance of water supplies, reduction and prevention of water pollution, exclusion of nonconforming inholdings, maintenance of efficient management areas, provision of research areas, and maintenance of military areas or sites for other government activities.

(2) The lands should be retained in Federal ownership pending enactment of Federal legislation, which would affect them.

(3) The lands should be retained in Federal ownership pending their acquisition by a State or local government.

(4) The lands are best suited for multiple use management and require management for a mixture of uses in order to best benefit the general public and such management could not be achieved if the lands were in private ownership.

(5) The lands contain scientific, scenic, historic, or wilderness values which would be lost to the general public if they were transferred out of Federal ownership.

(6) Transfer of the lands would be inconsistent with national objectives for the preservation of natural beauty of the country and the proper utilization of open space.
