
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Special Rules Applicable to Public Land Hearings and Appeals
##### appeals to the board of land appeals
###### ยง 4.411 Appeal; how taken, mandatory time limit.

(a) A person who wishes to appeal to the Board must file a notice that the person wishes to appeal.

(1) The notice of appeal must be filed in the office of the officer who made the decision (not the Board).

(2) Except as otherwise provided by law:

(i) A person served with the decision being appealed must transmit the notice of appeal in time for it to be received in the appropriate office no later than 30 days after the date of service of the decision; and

(ii) If a decision is published in thea person not served with the decision must transmit the notice of appeal in time for it to be received in the appropriate office no later than 30 days after the date of publication.

(b) The notice of appeal must give the serial number or other identification of the case. The notice of appeal may include a statement of reasons for the appeal, and a statement of standing if required by ยง 4.412(b).

(c) No extension of time will be granted for filing the notice of appeal. If a notice of appeal is filed after the grace period provided in ยง 4.401(a), the notice of appeal will not be considered and the case will be closed by the officer from whose decision the appeal is taken. If the notice of appeal is filed during the grace period provided in ยง 4.401(a) and the delay in filing is not waived, as provided in that section, the notice of appeal will not be considered and the appeal will be dismissed by the Board.

(d) After receiving a timely notice of appeal, the office of the officer who made the decision must promptly forward to the Board:

(1) The notice of appeal;

(2) Any statement of reasons, statement of standing, and other documents included with the notice of appeal; and

(3) The complete administrative record compiled during the officer's consideration of the matter leading to the decision being appealed.
