
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Special Rules Applicable to Public Land Hearings and Appeals
##### appeals to the board of land appeals
###### § 4.412 Statement of reasons; statement of standing; reply briefs.

(a) An appellant must file a statement of reasons for appeal with the Board no later than 30 days after the notice of appeal was filed. Unless the Board orders otherwise upon motion for good cause shown, the text of a statement of reasons may not exceed 30 pages, excluding exhibits, declarations, or other attachments.

(b) Where the decision being appealed relates to land selections under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended, the appellant also shall file with the Board a statement of facts upon which the appellant relies for standing under § 4.410(e) within 30 days after filing of the notice of appeal. The statement may be included with the notice of appeal filed pursuant to § 4.411 or the statement of reasons filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or may be filed as a separate document.

(c) Failure to file the statement of reasons and statement of standing within the time required will subject the appeal to summary dismissal as provided in § 4.402, unless the delay in filing is waived as provided in § 4.401(a).

(d) The filing of a reply brief is discouraged. However, an appellant who wishes to file a reply brief may do so within 15 days after service of an answer under § 4.414.

(1) The reply brief is limited to the issues raised in the answer.

(2) Unless the Board orders otherwise upon motion for good cause shown, the text of a reply brief may not exceed 20 pages, excluding exhibits, declarations, or other attachments.

(e) The requirements of § 4.401(d) apply to a statement of reasons and a reply brief.
