
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2520 - DESERT-LAND ENTRIES
###### Subpart 2520 - Desert-Land Entries: General
####### § 2520.0-8 Land subject to disposition.
######## Land that may be entered as desert land.

(a)(1) As the desert-land law requires the artificial irrigation of any land entered thereunder, lands which are not susceptible of irrigation by practicable means are not deemed subject to entry as desert lands. The question as to whether any particular tract sought to be entered as desert land is in fact irrigable from the source proposed by the applicant will be investigated and determined before the application for entry is allowed. In order to be subject to entry under the desert-land law, public lands must be not only irrigable but also surveyed, unreserved, unappropriated, non-mineral (except lands withdrawn, classified, or valuable for coal, phosphate, nitrate, potash, sodium, sulphur, oil, gas or asphaltic minerals, which may be entered with a reservation of such mineral deposits, as explained in subpart 2093, nontimbered, and such as will not, without artificial irrigation, produce any reasonably remunerative agricultural crop by the usual means or methods of cultivation. In this latter class are those lands which, one year with another for a series of years, will not without irrigation produce paying crops, but on which crops can be successfully grown in alternate years by means of the so-called dry-farming system. (37 L.D. 522 and 42 L.D. 524.)

(2) Applications to make desert-land entries of lands embraced in applications, permits, or leases under the Act of February 25, 1920 (41 Stat. 437), if in all other respects complete, will be treated in accordance with §§ 2093.0-3 to 2093.0-7. Applications to make desert-land entries of lands within a naval petroleum reserve must be rejected, as no desert-land entry may be allowed for such lands.

(3) Land that has been effectually reclaimed is not subject to desert land entry.
