
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Special Rules Applicable to Public Land Hearings and Appeals
##### appeals to the board of land appeals
###### § 4.413 Service of notice of appeal.

(a) The appellant must serve a copy of the notice of appeal on each person named in the decision from which the appeal is taken and on the Office of the Solicitor as identified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Service must be accomplished and certified as prescribed in § 4.401(c).

(b) Failure to serve a notice of appeal will subject the appeal to summary dismissal as provided in § 4.402.

(c) The appellant must serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the Office of the Solicitor as identified in OHA Standing Orders on Contact Information.

(d) This paragraph (d) applies to any appeal taken from a decision of a BLM State Office, including all District, Field, and Area Offices within that State Office's jurisdiction. The appellant must serve documents on the Office of the Solicitor as identified in the OHA Standing Orders on Contact Information.

(e) A notice of appeal may be electronically filed or served in accordance with § 4.401(e).

(f) Parties must serve the Office of the Solicitor as required by this section until a particular attorney of the Office of the Solicitor files and serves a Notice of Appearance or Substitution of Counsel. Thereafter, parties must serve the Office of the Solicitor as indicated by the Notice of Appearance or Substitution of Counsel.

(g) The appellant must certify service as provided in § 4.401(c)(5).
