
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2540 - COLOR-OF-TITLE AND OMITTED LANDS
###### Subpart 2544 - Erroneously Meandered Lands: Louisiana
####### ยง 2544.4 Publication and posting.

Upon payment of the appraised price of the land the Bureau will issue notice of publication. Such notice shall be published at the expense of the applicant in a designated newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the lands, once a week for five consecutive weeks. In accordance with ยง 1824.3 of this chapter, immediately prior to the date of sale, but a sufficient time shall elapse between the date of the last publication and the date of sale to enable the statement of the publisher to be filed. The notice will advise all persons claiming adversely to the applicant that they should file any objections or protests against the allowance of the application within the period of publication, otherwise the application may be allowed. Any objections or protests must be corroborated, and a copy thereof served upon the applicant. The Bureau will also cause a copy of such notice of publication to be posted in such office during the entire period of publication. The applicant must file in the Bureau prior to the date fixed for the sale evidence that publication has been had for the required period, which evidence must consist of the statement of the publisher accompanied by a copy of the notice so published.
