
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2540 - COLOR-OF-TITLE AND OMITTED LANDS
###### Subpart 2545 - Erroneously Meandered Lands: Wisconsin
####### ยง 2545.2 Applications.

(a) Claimants under the Act of 1925 have a preferred right of application for a period of 90 days from the date of filing of the plat of survey of lands claimed by them. Applications for public lands under the Act of 1954 must be filed within 1 year after August 24, 1954, or 1 year from the date of the official plat or resurvey, whichever is later. All applications must be filed in the proper office (see ยง 1821.2-1 of this chapter).

(b) Every application must be accompanied by a filing fee of $10, which is not returnable.

(c) No particular form is required but the applications must be typewritten or in legible handwriting and must contain the following information:

(1) The name and post office address of the applicant.

(2) The legal description and acreage of the public lands claimed or desired.

(3) The legal description of the lands owned by the applicant, if any, adjoining the public lands claimed or desired. If the claim is based on ownership of such adjoining lands, the application must be accompanied by a certificate from the proper county official or by an abstractor, showing the date of acquisition of the lands by the applicant and that the applicant owns the lands in fee simple as of the date of application.

(4) If the applicant is a color-of-title applicant under the Act of 1925, a statement whether or not the applicant is a citizen of the United States.

(5) If the application is based on color of title or riparian claim under the Act of 1925, a statement fully disclosing the facts of the matter; or if the application is based on peaceful, adverse possession under the Act of 1954, a similar statement showing peaceful, adverse possession by the applicant, or his predecessors in interest, since the issuance of the patent to the lands adjoining the claimed lands.

(6) A statement showing the improvements, if any, placed on the public lands applied for including their location, nature, present value, date of installation, and the names of the person or persons who installed them.

(7) A statement showing the cultivation, if any, of the lands applied for, including the nature, location, and dates of such cultivation.

(8) The names and post office addresses of any adverse claimants, settlers, or occupants of the public lands applied for or claimed.

(9) The names and post office addresses of at least two disinterested persons having knowledge of the facts relating to the applicant's claim.

(10) A citation of the act under which the application is made.
