
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2540 - COLOR-OF-TITLE AND OMITTED LANDS
###### Subpart 2547 - Omitted Lands: General
####### ยง 2547.2 Procedures; applications.

(a) The description of the omitted lands applied for shall be sufficiently complete to identify the location, boundary, and area of the land, including, if possible, the legal description of the land by section or fractional section, township, range, meridian and State.

(b) Each application shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $50 that is nonreturnable. The application shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1821.2 of this title.

(c) No special form of application is required. The application shall be typewritten or in legible handwriting and shall contain the following information:

(1) The full name and legal mailing address of the applicant.

(2) The description and acreage of the public lands claimed.

(3) A statement showing that the applicant is qualified or authorized to hold title to land in the State, is a citizen of the United States, and in the case of a corporation, is organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.

(4) A statement describing how the applicant has satisfied the requirements of the statute.

(5) A statement describing the nature and extent of any developments made to the lands applied for and describing the period and type of any occupancy of the land.

(6) The names and legal mailing addresses of any known adverse claimants or occupants of the applied for lands.

(7) A citation of the Act under which the application is being made.
