
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2563 - Homesites or Headquarters
####### ยง 2563.0-3 Authority.

(a) The Act of March 3, 1927 (44 Stat. 1364; 43 U.S.C. 687a), as amended, authorizes the sale as a homestead or headquarters of not to exceed five acres of unreserved public lands in Alaska at the rate of $2.50 per acre, to any citizen of the United States 21 years of age employed by citizens of the United States, association of such citizens, or by corporations organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State or Territory, whose employer is engaged in trade, manufacture, or other productive industry in Alaska, and to any such person who is himself engaged in trade, manufacture or other productive industry in Alaska. The lands must be nonmineral in character except that lands that may be valuable for coal, oil, or gas deposits are subject to disposition under the provisions of the Act of March 8, 1922 (42 Stat. 415, 43 U.S.C. 270-11, 270-12), as amended.

(b) The Act of May 26, 1934 (48 Stat. 809; 43 U.S.C. 687a) amended section 10 of the Act of May 14, 1898 (30 Stat. 413), as amended by the Act of March 3, 1927 (44 Stat. 1364), so as to provide that any citizen, after occupying land of the character described in said section of a homestead or headquarters, in a habitable house not less than 5 months each year for 3 years, may purchase such tract, not exceeding 5 acres, in a reasonably compact form, without a showing as to his employment or business, upon the payment of $2.50 per acre, the minimum payment for any one tract to be $10.
