
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2563 - Homesites or Headquarters
####### ยง 2563.1-1 Application.
######## Form and contents of applications.

(a)Applications under the Act of March 3, 1927, must be filed in duplicate in the proper office for the district in which the land is situated, and the claim must be in reasonably compact form. An application need not be under oath but must be signed by the applicant and corroborated by the statements of two persons and must show the following facts:

(1) The age and citizenship of applicant.

(2) The actual use and occupancy of the land for which application is made for a homestead or headquarters.

(3) The date when the land was first occupied as a homestead or headquarters.

(4) The nature of the trade, business, or productive industry in which applicant or his employer, whether a citizen, an association of citizens, or a corporation is engaged.

(5) The location of the tract applied for with respect to the place of business and other facts demonstrating its adaptability to the purpose of a homestead or headquarters.

(6) That no portion of the tract applied for is occupied or reserved for any purpose by the United States, or occupied or claimed by any natives of Alaska, or occupied as a town site or missionary station or reserved from sale, and that the tract does not include improvements made by or in possession of another person, association, or corporation.

(7) That the land is not included within an area which is reserved because of springs thereon. All facts as to medicinal or other springs must be stated, in accordance with ยง 2311.2(a).

(8) That no part of the land is valuable for mineral deposits other than coal, oil or gas, and that at the date of location no part of the land was claimed under the mining laws.

(9) If the land desired for purchase is surveyed, the application must include a description of the tract by aliquot parts of legal subdivisions, not exceeding 5 acres. If the tract is situated in the fractional portion of a sectional lotting, the lot may be subdivided; where such subdivision, however, would result in narrow strips or other areas containing less than 2acres, not suitable for disposal as separate units, such adjoining excess areas, in the discretion of the authorized officer and with the consent of the applicant, may be included with the tract applied for, without subdividing and the application will be amended accordingly. Where a supplemental plat is required, to provide a proper description, it will be prepared at the time of approval of the application.

(10) If the land is unsurveyed, the application must be accompanied by a petition for survey, describing the tract applied for with as much certainty as possible, without actual survey, not exceeding 5 acres, and giving the approximate latitude and longitude of one corner of the claim.
