
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2564 - Native Townsites
####### ยง 2564.5 Sale of land for which restricted deed was issued.

When a native possessing a restricted deed for land in a trustee townsite issued under authority of the Act of May 25, 1926 (44 Stat. 629; 43 U.S.C. 733-736), desires to sell the land, he should execute a deed on a form approved by the Director, prepared for the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, or his authorized representative, and send it to the townsite trustee in Alaska. The townsite trustee will forward the deed to the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs who will determine whether it should be approved. Where the deed is approved it shall be returned by the Area Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, through the townsite trustee to the vendor. In the event the Area Director determines that the deed shall not be approved, he shall so inform the native possessing the restricted deed, who shall have a right of appeal from such finding or decision to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs within sixty days from the date of notification of such finding or decision. The appeal shall be filed with the Area Director. Should the Commissioner uphold the decision of the Area Director, he shall notify the applicant of such action, informing him of his right of appeal to the Secretary of the Interior.
