
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2565 - Non-native Townsites
####### ยง 2565.5 Sale of the land.
######## Public sale of unclaimed lots.

(a)After deeds have been issued to the parties entitled thereto the trustee will publish or post notice that he will sell, at a designated place in the town and at a time named, to be not less than 30 days from date, at public outcry, for cash, to the highest bidder, all lots and tracts remaining unoccupied and unclaimed at the date of the approval of final subdivisional townsite survey, and all lots and tracts claimed and awarded on which the assessments have not been paid at the date of such sale. The notice shall contain a description of the lots and tracts to be sold, made in two separate lists, one containing the lots and tracts unclaimed at the date of the approval of final subdivisional townsite survey and the other the lots and tracts claimed and awarded on which the assessments have not been paid. Should any delinquent allottee, prior to the sale of the lot claimed by him, pay the assessments thereon, together with the pro rata cost of the publication and the cost of acknowledging deed, a deed will be issued to him for such lot, and the lot will not be offered at public sale. Where notice by publication is deemed advisable the notice will be published once a week for 5 consecutive weeks in accordance with ยง 1824.3 of this chapter prior to the date of sale, and in any event copies of such notice shall be posted in three conspicuous places within the townsite. Each lot must be sold at a fair price, to be determined by the trustee, and he is authorized to reject any and all bids. Lots remaining unsold at the close of the public sale in an unincorporated town may again be offered at a fair price if a sufficient demand appears therefor.
