
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2565 - Non-native Townsites
####### ยง 2565.5 Sale of the land.
######## Sales to Federal, State and local governmental agencies.

(b)(1) Any lot or tract in the townsite which is subject to sale to the highest bidder by the trustee pursuant to this section may in lieu of disposition at public sale be sold by the trustee at a fair value to be fixed by him to any Federal or State agency or instrumentality or to any local governmental agency or instrumentality of the State for use for public purposes.

(2) All conveyances under this section shall be subject to such conditions, limitations, or stipulations as the trustee shall determine are necessary or appropriate in the circumstances, including, where he deems proper, a provision for reversion of title to the trustee or his successor in interest. Any such provision for reversion of title, however, shall by its terms cease to be in effect 25 years after the conveyance.

(3) Conveyances under this section for lands within any incorporated city, town, village, or municipality may be made only after the proposed conveyance has received the approval of the city, town, or village council, or of the local official designated by such council. Such conveyances for lands within any unincorporated city, town, village or municipality may be made only after notice of the proposed conveyance, together with the opportunity to be heard, has been given by the proposed grantee to the residents or occupants thereof in accordance with the requirements for such notice in the case of the public sale of unclaimed lots in a trustee townsite. Any decision of the trustee which is adverse to a protest will be subject to the right of appeal under part 1840 of this chapter. Upon filing of an appeal pursuant to that part, action by the trustee on the conveyance will be suspended pending final decision on the appeal.
