
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2565 - Non-native Townsites
####### ยง 2565.6 Rights-of-way.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, the trustee is authorized to grant rights-of-way for public purposes across any unentered lands within the townsite. This authority is expressly limited to grants of rights-of-way to cities, towns, villages, and municipalities, and to school, utility, and other types of improvement districts, and to persons, associations, companies, and corporations engaged in furnishing utility services to the general public, and to the United States, any Federal or State agency or instrumentality for use for public purposes.

(b) The trustee may in his discretion fix a reasonable charge for any grant under this authority to private persons, associations, companies and corporations, and to Federal and State agencies and instrumentalities, which charge shall be a lump sum. All grants shall be subject to such conditions, limitations, or stipulations as the trustee shall determine are necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. No grants of rights-of-way under this authority shall be made across or upon lands on which prior rights of occupancy or entry have vested under the law.

(c) Grants of rights-of-way under this section to Federal and State agencies and instrumentalities to private persons, associations, companies, or corporations affecting lands within any incorporated city, town, village, or municipality, may be made only after the proposed grant has received the approval of the city, town, or village council, or, where applicable, the municipal board or commission having authority under state law to approve rights-of-way for local public utility purposes. Grants of such rights-of-way to Federal and State agencies and instrumentalities and to private persons, associations, companies, or corporations within unincorporated cities, towns, villages, or municipalities may be made only after notice of the proposed grant, together with the opportunity to be heard, has been given by the proposed grantee to the residents or occupants thereof in accordance with the requirements for such notice in the case of the public sale of unclaimed lots in a trustee townsite. Any decision by the trustee which is adverse to a protest will be subject to the right of appeal under part 1840 of this chapter. Upon the filing of an appeal, action by the trustee on the application for right-of-way will be suspended pending final decision on the appeal.
