
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2569 - Alaska Native Vietnam-Era Veterans Land Allotments
####### Applying for an Allotment
######## ยง 2569.413 How will I receive Notices and Decisions?

(a) The BLM will provide all Notices and Decisions by Certified Mail with Return Receipt to your address of record.

(b) Where these regulations specify that you must take a certain action within a certain number of days of receiving a notice or decision, the BLM will determine the date on which you received the notice or decision as follows:

(1) If you sign the Return Receipt, the date on which you received the notice or decision will be the date on which you signed the Return Receipt.

(2) If the notice or decision is returned as undelivered, or if you refuse to sign the Return Receipt, the BLM will make a second attempt by an alternative method. If the second attempt succeeds in delivering the notice or decision, the BLM will deem the notice or decision to have been received on the date when the notice or decision was delivered according to the mail tracking system.

(3) If the notice or decision is returned as undelivered following the second attempt, the BLM may issue a decision rejecting your application.

(c) You have a duty to keep your address up to date. If your mailing address or other contact information changes during the application process, please notify the BLM by mail at the address provided in ยง 2569.409(a), or by telephone at 907-271-5960, by fax at 907-271-3334, or by the email address provided in the received notice or decision. If you notify the BLM by mail, fax, or email, please prominently include the words "Change of Contact Information" in your correspondence.

(d) Any responses to Notices or Decisions will be deemed received when it is physically received at the BLM Alaska State Office; if the response is mailed, on the date it was post-marked; or, if emailed, the date the email was sent.
