
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2560 - ALASKA OCCUPANCY AND USE
###### Subpart 2569 - Alaska Native Vietnam-Era Veterans Land Allotments
####### Processing the Application
######## ยง 2569.502 What if more than one Eligible Individual applies for the same lands?

(a) If two or more Eligible Individuals select the same lands, in whole or part, the BLM will:

(1) Give preference to the application bearing the earliest receipt date;

(2) If two or more applications bear an identical receipt date, and one or more application bears a legible postmark or shipping date, give preference to the application with the earliest postmark or shipping date; or

(3) Assign to any applications for the same land that are still tied after the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are applied a number in sequence, and run a random number generator to pick the application that will receive preference.

(4) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, an application received, postmarked, or shipped before December 28, 2020 will be deemed to have been received, postmarked, or shipped on December 28, 2020.

(b) The BLM will issue a decision to all applicants with conflicting selections setting out the BLM's determination of preference rights. Applicants who do not have preference must make one of the following choices:

(1) Provide the BLM a substitute selection within 60 days of receipt of the BLM's decision. The substitute selection may consist of either an adjustment to the original selection that avoids the conflict, or a new selection located somewhere else. The substitute selection will be considered a new application for purposes of preference, as set forth in ยง 2569.411(c), but the applicant will not need to resubmit any portions of the application other than the land description and map; or,

(2) If only a portion of the selection is in conflict, the applicant may request that the BLM continue to adjudicate the portion of the selection that is not in conflict. The BLM must receive the request within 60 days of your receipt of the BLM's decision. Each applicant is allowed only one selection of land under this act and will not be allowed to apply for more acreage later.

(c) If the BLM finds your application conflicts with an application which has technical errors, the BLM will provide you the option of selecting a substitute parcel prior to that application being corrected under the procedures of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(d) If you receive a decision finding your application does not have preference under paragraph (b) of this section and the BLM does not receive your choice within 60 days of receipt of the notice, the BLM will issue a decision rejecting your application. If your application is rejected, you may file a new application for different lands before the end of the five-year application period.
