
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2610 - CAREY ACT GRANTS
###### Subpart 2610 - Carey Act Grants, General
####### ยง 2610.0-3 Authority.

(a) The Carey Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, with the approval of the President, to contract and agree to grant and patent to States, in which there are desert lands, not to exceed 1,000,000 acres of such lands to each State, under the conditions specified in the Act. The Secretary is authorized to contract and agree to grant and patent additional lands to certain States. After a State's application for a grant has been approved by the Secretary, the lands are segregated from the public domain for a period of from 3 to 15 years, the State undertaking within that time to cause the reclamation of the lands by irrigation. The lands, when reclaimed, are patented to the States or to actual settlers who are its assignees. If the lands are patented to the State, the State transfers title to the settler. Entries are limited to 160 acres to each actual settler.

(b) The Act of June 11, 1896 (29 Stat. 434; 43 U.S.C. 642), authorizes liens on the land for the cost of construction of the irrigation works, and permits the issuance of patents to States for particular tracts actually reclaimed without regard to settlement or cultivation.

(c) The Act of March 1, 1907 (34 Stat. 1056), extends the provisions of the Carey Act to the former Southern Ute Indian Reservation in Colorado.

(d) The Joint Resolution approved May 25, 1908 (35 Stat. 577), authorizes grants to the State of Idaho of an additional 1,000,000 acres.

(e) The Act of May 27, 1908 (35 Stat. 347; 43 U.S.C. 645), authorizes grants of an additional 1,000,000 acres to the State of Idaho and the State of Wyoming.

(f) The Act of February 24, 1909 (35 Stat. 644; 43 U.S.C. 647), extends the provisions of the Carey Act to the former Ute Indian Reservation in Colorado.

(g) The Act of February 16, 1911 (36 Stat. 913), extends the Carey Act to the former Fort Bridger Military Reservation in Wyoming.

(h) The Act of February 21, 1911 (36 Stat. 925; 43 U.S.C. 523-524), permits the sale of surplus water by the United States Bureau of Reclamation for use upon Carey Act lands.

(i) The Act of March 4, 1911 (36 Stat. 1417; 43 U.S.C. 645), authorizes grants to the State of Nevada of an additional 1,000,000 acres.

(j) The Joint Resolution of August 21, 1911 (37 Stat. 38; 43 U.S.C. 645), authorizes grants to the State of Colorado of an additional 1,000,000 acres.
