
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2620 - STATE GRANTS
###### Subpart 2621 - Indemnity Selections
####### ยง 2621.1 Applications for selection.

(a) Applications for selection must be made on a form approved by the Director, and must be accompanied by a petition on a form approved by the Director properly executed. However, if the lands described in application have been already classified and opened for selection pursuant to the regulations of this part, no petition is required.

(b) Applications for selection under the law will be made by the proper selecting agent of the State and will be filed, in duplicate, in the proper office in the State or for lands or mineral estate in a State in which there is no office, will be filed in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1821.2 of this chapter.

(c) Applications must be accompanied by the following information:

(1) A reference to the Act of August 27, 1958 (72 Stat. 928), as amended.

(2) A certificate by the selecting agent showing:

(i) All facts relative to medicinal or hot springs or other waters upon the selected lands.

(ii) That indemnity has not been previously granted for the assigned base lands and that no other selection is pending for such assigned base.

(3) A statement describing the mineral or nonmineral character of each smallest legal subdivision of the base and selected lands or mineral estate.

(4) A certificate by the officer or officers charged with the care and disposal of school lands that no instrument purporting to convey, or in any way incumber, the title to any of the land used as base or bases, has been issued by the State or its agents.

(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, applications for selection must conform with the following rules:

(1) The selected land and base lands must be described in accordance with the official plats of survey except that unsurveyed lands will be described in terms of protracted surveys as officially approved in accordance with 43 CFR 3101.1-4(d)(1). If the unsurveyed lands are not covered by protracted surveys the lands must be described in terms of their probable legal description, if and when surveyed in accordance with the rectangular system of public land surveys, or if the State Director gives written approval therefor, by a metes and bounds description adequate to identify the lands accurately.

(2) Separate base or bases do not have to be assigned to each smallest legal subdivision of selected surveyed lands or mineral estate and to each tract of unsurveyed lands upon application. However, prior to final approval of the selection, separate base or bases shall be assigned. Assignment of the smallest actual or probable legal subdivision as base will constitute an election to take indemnity for the entire subdivision and is a waiver of the State's rights to such subdivision, except that any remaining balance of acreage may be used as base in other selections.

(3) For purposes of selecting unsurveyed land a protracted section shall be considered to be a smallest legal subdivision except where the State Director finds otherwise.

(4) The cause of loss of the base lands to the State must be specifically stated for each separate base.
