
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2620 - STATE GRANTS
###### Subpart 2623 - School Land Grants to Certain States Extended To Include Mineral Sections
####### ยง 2623.0-3 Authority.

(a) The first paragraph of section 1 of the Act approved January 25, 1927 (44 Stat. 1026; 43 U.S.C. 870), reads as follows:

(b) The beneficiaries of this grant are the States of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. The grant also extends to the unsurveyed school sections reserved, granted, and confirmed to the State of Florida by the Act of Congress approved September 22, 1922 (42 Stat. 1017; 16 U.S.C. 483, 484).

(c) The additional grant thus made, subject to all the conditions in the statute making same, applies to school-section lands known to be of mineral character at the effective date thereof as hereinafter defined. It does not include school-section lands nonmineral in character, those not known to be mineral in character at time of grant, but afterwards found to contain mineral deposits, such lands not being excepted from the grants theretofore made (Wyoming et al. v. United States, 255 U.S. 489-500, 501, 65 L. ed. 742-748), nor does it include lands in numbered school sections in lieu of or as indemnity for which lands were conveyed to the States first above named, or to the State of Florida with respect to school-section lands coming within the purview of the Act of September 22, 1922, prior to January 25, 1927.

(d) Determinations made prior to January 25, 1927, by the Secretary of the Interior or the Commissioner of the General Land Office to the effect that lands in school sections were excepted from school-land grants because of their known mineral character do not, of themselves, prevent or affect in any way the vesting of title in the States pursuant to the provisions of the statute making the additional grant.

(e) Subsection (a) of section 1 of the Act provides:
