
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2620 - STATE GRANTS
###### Subpart 2627 - Alaska
####### ยง 2627.2 Grant for University of Alaska.
######## Applications for selection.

(b)(1) Applications to select lands under the grant made to Alaska by the Act of January 21, 1929, will be made by the proper selecting agent of the State and will be filed in the proper office of the district in which such selected lands are situated. Such selections must be made in accordance with the law and with the applicable regulations governing selection of lands by States as set forth in part 2620.

(2) Notice of selection and publication is required as provided by ยง 2627.5 (b) and (c).

(3) Each list of selections must contain a reference to the act under which the selections are made and must be accompanied by a certificate of the selecting agent showing the selections are made under and pursuant to the laws of the State of Alaska.

(4) The selections in any one list must not exceed 6,400 acres.

(5) Each list must be accompanied by a certification of the selecting agent stating that the acreage selected together with the cumulative acreage total of all prior sales for lists pending and finally approved for clear-listing or patenting does not exceed 100,000 acres.
