
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2620 - STATE GRANTS
###### Subpart 2627 - Alaska
####### ยง 2627.3 Grant for general purposes.
######## Lands subject to selection; patents; minerals.,et seq.,et seq.,the mineral leasing acts,

(b)(1) The Act as amended August 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 395), provides that any lease, permit, license, or contract issued under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 (41 Stat. 437; 30 U.S.C. 181), as amended, or under the Alaska Coal Leasing Act of 1914 (38 Stat. 741; 30 U.S.C. 432), as amended, referred to in this section asshall have the effect of withdrawing the lands subject thereto from selection by the State.

(2) Under the Act, the State may select any vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved public lands in Alaska, whether or not they are surveyed and whether or not they contain mineral deposits. For the purposes of selection, leases, permits, licenses, and contracts issued under the Mineral Leasing Acts of 1914 and 1920 will be considered an appropriation of lands. Where the preference provisions of ยง 2627.4(a) do not apply, selections by the State of lands covered by an application filed prior to the State selection will be rejected to the extent of the conflict when and if such application is allowed. Conflicting applications and offers for mineral leases and permits, except for preference right applicants, filed pursuant to the Mineral Leasing Act, whether filed prior to, simultaneously with, or after the filing of a selection under this part will be rejected when and if the selection is tentatively approved by the authorized officer of the Bureau of Land Management in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) Patents will be issued for all selections approved under the act by the authorized officer of the Bureau of Land Management but such patents will not issue unless or until the exterior boundaries of the selected area are officially surveyed.

(4) (i) Where the State selects all the lands in a mineral lease, permit, license, or contract, issued under the Mineral Leasing Acts of 1914 and 1920, the patent issued under the act will convey to the State all mineral deposits in the selected lands. Any such patent shall vest in the State all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to any such lease, permit, license, or contract that remains outstanding on the effective date of the patent, including the right to all rentals, royalties, and other payments accruing after that date under such lease, permit, license, or contract, and including any authority that may have been retained by the United States to modify the terms and conditions of such lease, permit, license, or contract. Issuance of patent will not affect the continued validity of any such lease, permit, license, or contract or any rights arising thereunder.

(ii) Where the State selects a portion of the lands subject to a mineral lease, permit, license, or contract issued under the Mineral Leasing Acts of 1914 and 1920, the patent issued under the act shall reserve to the United States the mineral or minerals subject to that lease, permit, license, or contract, together with such further rights as may be necessary to the full and complete enjoyment of all rights, privileges, and benefits under or with respect to that lease, permit, license, or contracts. Upon the termination of the lease, permit, license, or contract, title to minerals so reserved to the United States shall pass to the State.
