
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2620 - STATE GRANTS
###### Subpart 2627 - Alaska
####### ยง 2627.3 Grant for general purposes.
######## f

() All the facts relative to medicinal or hot springs or other waters upon the selected lands.

(iii) If the selected lands are surveyed, the legal description of the lands in accordance with official plats of survey.

(iv) If the selected lands are unsurveyed and are described by approved protraction diagrams of the rectangular system of surveys, such description is required.

(v) If the selected lands are unsurveyed and are not described by approved protraction diagrams, a description of the lands and a map or maps, in duplicate, sufficient to permit ready identification of the location, boundaries, and area of the lands.

(2) Selections must be accompanied by a filing fee of $10 for 5,760 acres or fraction thereof in the selection which fee is not returnable.

(3) All selections shall be made in reasonably compact tracts, taking into account the situation and potential uses of the lands involved. A tract will not be considered compact if it excludes other public lands available for selection within its exterior boundary. Each tract selected shall contain at least 5,760 acres unless isolated from other tracts open to selection.

(4) If the selected lands are in the area north and west of the line described in section 10 of the Act, all selection made or confirmed by the act must be accompanied by a statement of the President or his designated representative showing that he approves the selection.

(5) Section 2627.3(a)(1) and (c)(1)(ii) do not apply to the extent that an application embraces a reserved or retained interest.
