
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2650 - Alaska Native Selections: Generally
####### ยง 2650.1 Provisions for interim administration.

(a)(1) Prior to any conveyance under the Act, all public lands withdrawn pursuant to sections 11, 14, and 16, or covered by section 19 of the Act, shall be administered under applicable laws and regulations by the Secretary of the Interior, or by the Secretary of Agriculture in the case of national forest lands, as provided by section 22(i) of the Act. The authority of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of Agriculture to make contracts and to issue leases, permits, rights-of-way, or easements is not impaired by the withdrawals.

(2)(i) Prior to the Secretary's making contracts or issuing leases, permits, rights-of-way, or easements, the views of the concerned regions or villages shall be obtained and considered, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Prior to making contracts, or issuing leases, permits, rights-of-way, or easements on lands subject to election pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, the Secretary shall obtain the consent of the representatives of the Natives living on those lands.

(b) As provided in section 17(d)(3) of the Act, any lands withdrawn pursuant to section 17(d) shall be subject to administration by the Secretary under applicable laws and regulations and his authority to make contracts, and to issue leases, permits, rights-of-way, or easements shall not be impaired by the withdrawal. To the extent that any such land is also subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the provisions of that subsection shall govern.

(c) As provided in section 21(e) of the Act, so long as there are no substantial revenues from real property interests conveyed pursuant to this Act and the lands are not subject to State and local real property taxes, such lands shall continue to receive forest fire protection services from the United States at no cost. The Secretary will promulgate criteria, after consultation with the concerned Native corporations and the State of Alaska, for determining when substantial revenues are accruing as to lands for which forest fire protection services are furnished by the Department of the Interior and no discontinuance of such service will be ordered by the Secretary unless he finds, after notice and opportunity for submission of views, that such discontinuance is in conformity with the criteria.
