
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2650 - Alaska Native Selections: Generally
####### ยง 2650.2 Application procedures for land selections.

(a) Applications for land selections must be filed on forms approved by the Director, Bureau of Land Management. Applications must be filed in accordance with subpart 1821 of this chapter.

(b) Each regional corporation shall submit with its initial application under this section a copy of the resolution authorizing the individual filing the application to do so.

(c) Each village corporation under subpart 2651 of this chapter must submit with its initial application under this section a certificate of incorporation, evidence of approval of its articles of incorporation by the regional corporation for that region, and a copy of the authorization of the individual filing the application to do so.

(d)(1) Regional and village corporations authorized by the act subsequently filing additional or amendatory applications need only refer to the serial number of the initial filing.

(2) Any change of the officer authorized to act for any corporation in the matter of land selections should be promptly submitted to the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management.

(e)(1) If the lands applied for are surveyed, the legal description of the lands in accordance with the official plats of survey shall be used.

(2) If the lands applied for are unsurveyed, they shall be described by protraction diagrams.

(3) If the lands applied for are not surveyed and are not covered by protraction diagrams, they must be described by metes and bounds commencing at a readily identifiable topographic feature, such as a mountain peak, mouth of a stream, etc., or a monumented point of known position, such as a triangulation station, and the description must be accompanied by a topographic map delineating the boundary of the area applied for.

(4) Where 1:63,360 U.S.G.S. quadrangle maps with the protraction diagram plotted thereon have been published, these maps shall be used to portray and describe the lands applied for. Where 1:63,360 U.S.G.S. quadrangle maps with the protraction diagram plotted thereon have not been published, then the 1:250,000 U.S.G.S. quadrangle maps with the protraction diagrams plotted thereon shall be used.

(5) If the written description shown on the application and the map portrayal accompanying the application do not agree the delineation shown on the map shall be controlling.

(f) The selected areas may be adjusted by the Secretary with the consent of the applicant and amendment of the application by the applicant, provided that the adjustment will not create an excess over the selection entitlement.
