
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2653 - Miscellaneous Selections
####### ยง 2653.1 Conveyance limitations.
######## pending before the Department.,approved

(3) 400,000 acres will be set aside to be used by the Secretary to satisfy Native allotment applications approved prior to December 18, 1975, under the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197), the Act of February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 389), as amended and supplemented, and the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 863). Any Native allotment applications pending before the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of Land Management on December 18, 1971, will be considered asThose allotment applications which have been determined to meet the requirements of the acts cited herein and for which survey has been requested before December 18, 1975, shall be consideredunder section 14(h)(6) of the Act and shall be charged against the acreage.

(b) After subtracting the number of acres used in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section from 2 million acres, the remainder will, after July 1, 1976, be reallocated by the Secretary among the regional corporations in accordance with the number of Natives enrolled in each region.

(c) No Native allotment applications pending before the Secretary on December 18, 1971, will be rejected solely for the reason that the acreage set aside by paragraph (a)(3) of this section has been exhausted.
