
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2653 - Miscellaneous Selections
####### ยง 2653.2 Application procedures.

(a) All applications must be filed in accordance with the procedures in ยง 2650.2(a) of this chapter.

(b) Applications by corporations of Native groups under section 14(h)(2) and by a Native for a primary place of residence under section 14(h)(5) of the Act must be accompanied by written concurrence of the affected regional corporation. In the case of Native groups, such concurrence must also indicate how much land per member of the Native group, not to exceed 320 acres per member, the regional corporation recommends that the Secretary convey. Any application not accompanied by the necessary concurrence and recommendation of the affected region will be rejected.

(c) Native groups, and Natives residing in Sitka, Kenai, Juneau, and Kodiak, as provided in sections 14(h) (2) and (3), respectively, must comply with the applicable terms of ยง 2650.2(a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this chapter.

(d) The filing of an application under the regulations of this section will constitute a request for withdrawal of the lands, and will segregate the lands from all other forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining and mineral leasing laws, and from selection under the Alaska Statehood Act, as amended, subject to valid existing rights, but will not segregate the lands from selections under section 12 or 16 of the Act. The segregative effect of such an application will terminate if the application is rejected.
