
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2653 - Miscellaneous Selections
####### ยง 2653.5 Cemetery sites and historical places.
######## Historical places.

(2)The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall describe the events that took place and qualities of the site which give it particular value and significance as a historical place.

(k) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall submit its report and certification along with the written comments and recommendations of the National Park Service and any other Federal agency, to the Bureau of Land Management. If the land is available, the Bureau of Land Management shall issue a decision to convey. However, where the issues in ยง 2653.5(b) are raised by the reports of the Fish and Wildlife Service or the Forest Service, the State Director, Bureau of Land Management shall submit the record including a land status report, to the Secretary for a resolution of any conflicts. If the land is available for that purpose, the Secretary shall make his determination to convey or not to convey the site to the applicant.

(l) The decision of the Bureau of Land Management or the Secretary shall be served on the applicant and all parties of record in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR part 4, subpart E and shall be published in accordance with ยง 2650.7 of this part. The decision of the Bureau of Land Management shall become final unless appealed to the Board of Land Appeals in accordance with 43 CFR part 4, subpart E. Any agency adversely affected by the certification of BIA or the decision of the Bureau of Land Management may also appeal the matter to the Board of Land Appeals. After a decision to convey an existing cemetery site or historical place has become final, the Bureau of Land Management shall adjust the segregation of the lands to conform with said conveyance.

(m) For inactive cemeteries, the boundaries of such cemetery sites shall include an area encompassing all actual gravesites including a reasonable buffer zone of not more than 66 feet. For active cemeteries, the boundaries of such sites shall include an area of actual use and reasonable future expansion of not more than 10 acres, but the BLM in consultation with any affected Federal agency may include more than 10 acres upon a determination that special circumstances warrant it. For historical places, the boundaries shall include an area encompassing the actual site with a reasonable buffer zone of not more than 330 feet.
