
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2653 - Miscellaneous Selections
####### ยง 2653.6 Native groups.
######## Eligibility.

(a)(1) The head or any authorized representative of a Native group incorporated pursuant to section 14(h)(2) of the Act may file on behalf of the group an application for a determination of its eligibility under said section of the Act. Such application shall be filed in duplicate with the appropriate officer, Bureau of Land Management, prior to April 16, 1976, in accordance with ยง 2650.2(a) of this chapter. Upon serialization of the application, the Bureau of Land Management office will forward a copy of such application to the Director, Juneau Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, who shall investigate and report the findings of fact required to be made herein to the Bureau of Land Management with a certification thereof. A copy of an application by a group located within a National Wildlife Refuge or a National Forest will be furnished to the appropriate agency administering the area.

(2) Each application must identify the section, township, and range in which the Native group is located, and must be accompanied by a list of the names of the Native members of the group, a listing of permanent improvements and periods of use of the locality by members, a conformed copy of the group's article of incorporation, and the regional corporation's concurrence and recommendation under ยง 2653.2(b).

(3) Notice of the filing of such application specifying the date of such filing, the identity and location of the Native group, and the date by which any protest of the application must be filed shall be prepared by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and shall be published once in theand in one or more newspapers of general circulation in Alaska once a week for three consecutive weeks by the Bureau of Land Management. Any protest to the application shall be filed with the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the time specified in the notice.

(4) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall investigate and determine whether each member of a Native group formed pursuant to section 14(h)(2) of the Act is enrolled pursuant to section 5 of the Act. The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall determine whether the members of the Native group actually reside in and are enrolled to the locality specified in its application. The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall specify the number and names of Natives who actually reside in and are enrolled to the locality, including children who are members of the group and who are temporarily elsewhere for purposes of education, and it shall further determine whether the members of the Native group constitute the majority of the residents of the locality where the group resides. The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall determine and identify the exterior boundaries of the Native group's locality and the location of all those permanent structures of the Native group used as dwelling houses.

(5) The Native group must have an identifiable physical location. The members of the group must use the group locality as a place where they actually live in permanent structures used as dwelling houses. The group must have the character of a separate community, distinguishable from nearby communities, and must be composed of more than a single family or household. Members of a group must have enrolled to the group's locality pursuant to section 5 of the Act, must actually have resided there as of the 1970 census enumeration date, and must have lived there as their principal place of residence since that date.

(6) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall issue its certification, containing its findings of fact required to be made herein and its determination of the eligibility of the Native group, except it shall issue a certification of ineligibility when it is notified by the Bureau of Land Management that the land is unavailable for selection by such Native group. It shall send a copy thereof by certified mail to the Bureau of Land Management, the Native group, its regional corporation and any party of record.

(7) Appeals concerning the eligibility of a Native group may be made to the Board of Land Appeals in accordance with 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
