
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2650 - ALASKA NATIVE SELECTIONS
###### Subpart 2653 - Miscellaneous Selections
####### § 2653.6 Native groups.
######## Selections.

(b)(1) Native group selections shall not exceed the amount recommended by the regional corporation or 320 acres for each Native member of a group, or 7,680 acres for each Native group, whichever is less. Any acreage selected in excess of that number shall be identified as alternate selections and shall be numerically ordered to indicate selection preference. Native groups will not receive land benefits unless the land which is occupied by their permanent structures used as dwelling houses is available, or in the case where such land is not State or federally owned, the land which is contiguous to and immediately surrounds the land occupied by their permanent structures used as dwelling houses is available, and is not within a wildlife refuge or forest, pursuant to section 14(h) of the Act. Public lands which may be available for this purpose are set forth in § 2653.3 (a) and (c). Conveyances of lands reserved for the National Wildlife Refuge System made pursuant to this part are subject to the provisions of section 22(g) of the Act and § 2650.4-6 of this chapter as though they were conveyances to a village corporation.

(2) Upon receipt of the applications of a Native group for a determination of its eligibility under section 14(h)(2) of the Act, the Bureau of Land Management shall segregate the land encompassed within the group locality from land available for that purpose pursuant to § 2653.6(b)(1). However, segregation of land for Native groups whose dwelling structures are located outside but adjacent to a National Wildlife Refuge or National Forest shall not include such reserved land, unless the Native group's dwelling structures are located on land excepted from the Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge pursuant to Public Land Order 1634 (FR Doc. 58-3696, filed May 16, 1958).

(3) The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall visit the locality of the group and shall recommend to the Bureau of Land Management the manner in which the segregation should be modified to encompass the residences of as many members as possible while allowing for the inclusion of the land most intensively used by members of the Native group. The recommended segregation must be contiguous and as compact as possible. The Bureau of Land Management may segregate the land accordingly provided such lands are otherwise available in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2). If the Bureau of Land Management finds the lands are unavailable for selection by a Native group, it shall notify the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(4) Selections shall be made from lands segregated for that purpose and shall be filed prior to July 1, 1976. Selections shall be contiguous and taking into account the situation and potential uses of the lands involved, the total area selected shall be reasonably compact except where separated by lands which are unavailable for selection. The total area selected will not be considered to be reasonably compact if (i) it excludes other lands available for selection within its exterior boundaries; or (ii) an isolated tract of public land of less than 640 acres remains after selection. The lands selected shall be in quarter sections where they are available unless the exhaustion of the acreage which the group may be entitled to select does not permit the selection of a quarter section and shall include all available lands in less than quarter sections. Lands selected shall conform as nearly as practicable to the United States land survey system.

(5) A Native group whose eligibility has not been finally determined may file its land selections as if it were determined to be eligible. The Bureau of Land Management shall release from segregation the lands not selected and shall continue segregation of the selected land until the lands are conveyed or the group is finally determined to be ineligible. However, in the case of a group determined to be ineligible by the Board of Land Appeals, the segregation shall be continued for a period of 60 days from the date of such decision.

(6) Where any conflict in land selection occurs between any eligible Native groups, the Bureau of Land Management shall request the appropriate regional corporation to recommend the manner in which such conflict should be resolved.

(7) The Bureau of Land Management shall issue a decision on the selection of a Native group determined to be eligible and shall serve a copy of such decision by certified mail on the Native group, its regional corporation and any party of record and the decision shall be published in accordance with § 2650.7 of this part.

(8) Appeals from the Bureau of Land Management decision on the selection by a Native group under this section shall be made to the Board of Land Appeals in accordance with 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
