
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2710 - SALES: FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2710 - Sales: General Provisions
####### ยง 2710.0-8 Lands subject to sale.

(a) All public lands, as defined by ยง 2710.0-5 of this title, and, which meet the disposal criteria specified under ยง 2710.0-3 of this title, are subject to sale pursuant to this part, except:

(1) Those public lands within the revested Oregon California Railroad and reconveyed Coos Bay Wagon Road grants which are more suitable for management and administration for permanent forest protection and other purposes as provided for in the Acts of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 874; 43 U.S.C. 1181(a)); May 24, 1939 (53 Stat. 753); and section 701(b) of the Act.

(2) Public lands in units of the National Wilderness Preservation System, National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and National System of Trails.

(3) Public lands classified, withdrawn, reserved or otherwise designated as not available or subject to sale shall not be sold under the regulations of this part until issuance of an order or notice which either opens or provides for such disposition.

(b) Unsurveyed public lands shall not be sold under the regulations of this part until they are officially surveyed under the public land survey system of the United States. Such survey shall be completed and approved by the Secretary prior to any sale.
