
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2710 - SALES: FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2711 - Sales: Procedures
####### ยง 2711.1-2 Notice of realty action.

(a) A notice of realty action offering for sale a tract or tracts of public lands identified for disposal by sale shall be issued, published and sent to parties of interest by the authorized officer not less than 60 days prior to the sale. The notice shall include the terms, convenants, conditions and reservations which are to be included in the conveyance document and the method of sale. The notice shall also provide 45 days after the date of issuance for the right of comment by the public and interested parties.

(b) Not less than 60 days prior to sale, notice shall be sent to the Member of the U.S. House of Representatives in whose district the public lands proposed for sale are located and the U.S. Senators for the State in which the public lands proposed for sale are located, the Senate and House of Representatives, as required by paragraph (f) of this section, to Governor of the State within which the public lands are located, to the head of the governing body of any political subdivision having zoning or other land use regulatory responsibility in the geographic area within which the public lands are located and to the head of any political subdivision having administrative or public services responsibility in the geographic area within which the lands are located. The notice shall be sent to other known interested parties of record including, but not limited to, adjoining landowners and current land users.

(c) The notice shall be published once in theand once a week for 3 weeks thereafter in a newspaper of general circulation in the general vicinity of the public lands being proposed to be offered for sale.

(d) The publication of the notice of realty action in thesegregates the public lands covered by the notice of realty action to the extent that they will not be subject to appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws. Any subsequent application will not be accepted, will not be considered as filed, and will be returned to the applicant if the notice segregates from the use applied for in the application. The segregative effect of the notice of realty action terminates: (i) Upon issuance of a patent or other document of conveyance to such lands; (ii) upon publication in theof a termination of the segregation; or (iii) at the end of the specified segregation period, whichever occurs first. The segregation period may not exceed two years unless, on a case-by-case basis, the BLM State Director determines that the extension is necessary and documents, in writing, why the extension is needed. Such an extension will not be renewable and cannot be extended beyond the additional two years. If an extension is deemed necessary, the BLM will publish a notice following the same procedure as that stated in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) The notice published under ยง 1610.5 of this title may, if so designated in the notice and is the functional equivalent of a notice of realty action required by this section, serve as the notice of realty action required by paragraph (a) of this section and may segregate the public lands covered by the sale proposal to the same extent that they would have been segregated under a notice of realty action issued under paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) For tracts of public lands in excess of 2,500 acres, the notice shall be submitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives not less than the 90 days prescribed by section 203 of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1713(c)) prior to the date of sale. The sale may not be held prior to the completion of the congressional notice period unless such period is waived by Congress.
