
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2710 - SALES: FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2711 - Sales: Procedures
####### § 2711.3-1 Competitive bidding.

When public lands are offered through competitive bidding:

(a) The date, time, place, and manner for submitting bids shall be specified in the notice required by § 2711.1-2 of this title.

(b) Bids may be made by a principal or a duly qualified agent.

(c) Sealed bids shall be considered only if received at the place of sale prior to the hour fixed in the notice and are made for at least the fair market value. Each bid shall be accompanied by certified check, postal money order, bank draft or cashier's check made payable to the Bureau of Land Management for the amount required in the notice of realty action which shall be not less than 10 percent or more than 30 percent of the amount of the bid, and shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope which shall be marked as prescribed in the notice. If 2 or more envelopes containing valid bids of the same amount are received, the determination of which is to be considered the highest bid shall be by supplemental biddings. The designated high bidders shall be allowed to submit oral or sealed bids as designated by the authorized officer.

(d) The highest qualifying sealed bid received shall be publicly declared by the authorized officer. If the notice published pursuant to § 2711.1-2 of this title provides for oral bids, such bids, in increments specified by the authorized officer, shall then be invited. After oral bids, if any, are received, the highest qualifying bid, designated by type, whether sealed or oral, shall be declared by the authorized officer. The person declared to have entered the highest qualifying oral bid shall submit payment by cash, personal check, bank draft, money order, or any combination for not less than one-fifth of the amount of the bid immediately following the close of the sale. The successful bidder, whether such bid is a sealed or oral bid, shall submit the remainder of the full bid price prior to the expiration of 180 days from the date of the sale. Failure to submit the full bid price prior to, but not including the 180th day following the day of the sale, shall result in cancellation of the sale of the specific parcel and the deposit shall be forfeited and disposed of as other receipts of sale. In the event the authorized officer rejects the highest qualified bid or releases the bidder from it, the authorized officer shall determine whether the public lands shall be withdrawn from the market or be reoffered.

(e) If the public lands are not sold pursuant to the notice issued under § 2711.1-2 of this subpart, they may remain available for sale on a continuing basis until sold as specified in the notice.

(f) The acceptance or rejection of any offer to purchase shall be in writing no later than 30 days after receipt of such offer unless the offerer waives his right to a decision within such 30-day period. In case of a tract of land in excess of 2,500 acres, such acceptance or rejection shall not be given until the expiration of 30 days after the end of the notice to the Congress provided for in § 2711.1-2(d) of this subpart. Prior to the expiration of such periods the authorized officer may refuse to accept any offer or may withdraw any tract from sale if he determines that:

(1) Consummation of the sale would be inconsistent with the provisions of any existing law; or

(2) Collusive or other activities have hindered or restrained free and open bidding; or

(3) Consummation of the sale would encourage or promote speculation in public lands.

(g) Until the acceptance of the offer and payment of the purchase price, the bidder has no contractual or other rights against the United States, and no action taken shall create any contractual or other obligations of the United States.
