
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2710 - SALES: FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2711 - Sales: Procedures
####### § 2711.3-2 Modified bidding.

(a) Public lands may be offered for sale utilizing modified competitive bidding procedures when the authorized officer determines it is necessary in order to assure equitable distribution of land among purchasers or to recognize equitable considerations or public policies.

(1) Modified competitive bidding includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Offering to designated bidders the right to meet the highest bid. Refusal or failure to meet the highest bid shall constitute a waiver of such bidding provisions; or

(ii) A limitation of persons permitted to bid on a specific tract of land offered for sale; or

(iii) Offering to designated bidders the right of first refusal to purchase the lands at fair market value. Failure to accept an offer to purchase the offered lands within the time specified by the authorized officer shall constitute a waiver of his preference consideration.

(2) Factors that shall be considered in determining when modified competitive bidding procedures shall be used, include but are not limited to: Needs of State and/or local government, adjoining landowners, historical users, and other needs for the tract. A description of the method of modified competitive bidding to be used and a statement indicating the purpose or objective of the bidding procedure selected shall be specified in the notice of realty action required in § 2711.1-2 of this subpart.

(b) Where 2 or more designated bidders exercise preference consideration awarded by the authorized officer in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, such bidders shall be offered the opportunity to agree upon a division of the lands among themselves. In the absence of a written agreement, the preference right bidders shall be allowed to continue bidding to determine the high bidder.

(c) Where designated bidders fail to exercise the preference consideration offered by the authorized officer in the allowed time, the sale shall proceed using the procedures specified in § 2711.3-1 of this subpart; and

(d) Once the method of modified competitive or noncompetitive sale is determined and such determination has been issued, published and sent in accordance with procedures of this part, payment shall be by the same instruments as authorized in § 2711.3-1(c) of this subpart.

(e) Acceptance or rejection of any offer to purchase shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 2711.3-1 (f) and (g) of this subpart.
