
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2740 - RECREATION AND PUBLIC PURPOSES ACT
###### Subpart 2741 - Recreation and Public Purposes Act: Requirements
####### ยง 2741.3 Preapplication consultation.

(a) Potential applicants should contact the appropriate District Office of the Bureau of Land Management well in advance of the anticipated submission of an application. Early consultation is needed to familiarize a potential applicant with management responsibilities and terms and conditions which may be required in a lease or patent.

(b) Any information furnished by the applicant in connection with preapplication activity or use, which he/she requests not be disclosed, shall be protected to the extent consistent with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).

(c) Dependent upon the magnitude and/or public interest associated with the proposed use, various investigations, studies, analyses, public meetings and negotiations may be required of the applicant prior to the submission of the application. Where a determination is made that studies and analyses are required, the authorized officer shall inform the potential applicant of these requirements.

(d) The potential applicant may be permitted to go upon the public lands to perform casual acts related to data collection necessary for development of an acceptable plan of development as required in ยง 2741.4(b) of this title. These casual acts include, but are not limited to:

(1) Vehicle use on existing roads;

(2) Sampling;

(3) Surveys required for siting of structures or other improvements; and

(4) Other activities which do not unduly disturb surface resources. If, however, the authorized officer determines that appreciable impacts to surface resources may occur, he/she may require the potential applicant to obtain a land use authorization permit with appropriate terms and conditions under the provision of part 2920 of this title.
