
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2804 - Applying for FLPMA Grants
####### ยง 2804.14 What is the processing fee for a grant application?

(a) Unless you are exempt under ยง 2804.16, you must pay a fee to the BLM for the reasonable costs of processing your application. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, if processing your application involves Federal agencies other than the BLM, your fee may also include the reasonable costs estimated to be incurred by those Federal agencies. Instead of paying the BLM a fee for the reasonable costs incurred by other Federal agencies in processing your application, you may pay other Federal agencies directly for such costs. Reasonable costs are those costs as defined in Section 304(b) of FLPMA (43 U.S.C. 1734(b)). The fees for Processing Categories 1 through 4 (see paragraph (b) of this section) are one-time fees and are not refundable. The fees are categorized based on an estimate of the amount of time that the Federal Government will expend to process your application and issue a decision granting or denying the application.

(b) There is no processing fee if the Federal Government's work is estimated to take 1 hour or less. Processing fees are based on categories. The BLM will update the processing fees for Categories 1 through 4 in the schedule each calendar year, based on the previous year's change in the IPD-GDP, as measured second quarter to second quarter, rounded to the nearest dollar. The BLM will update Category 5 processing fees as specified in the Master Agreement. These categories and the estimated range of Federal work hours for each category are:
