
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2804 - Applying for FLPMA Grants
####### § 2804.14 What is the processing fee for a grant application?
######## see

(d) After an initial review of your application, BLM will notify you of the processing category into which your application fits. You must then submit the appropriate payment for that category before BLM begins processing your application. Your signature on a cost recovery Master Agreement constitutes your agreement with the processing category decision. If you disagree with the category that BLM has determined for your application, you may appeal the decision under § 2801.10 of this part. For Processing Categories 5 and 6 applications,§§ 2804.17, 2804.18, and 2804.19 of this subpart. If you paid the processing fee and you appeal a Processing Category 1 through 4 or a Processing Category 6 determination, BLM will process your application while the appeal is pending. If IBLA finds in your favor, you will receive a refund or adjustment of your processing fee.

(e) In processing your application, BLM may determine at any time that the application requires preparing an EIS. If this occurs, BLM will send you a decision changing your processing category to Processing Category 6. You may appeal this decision under § 2801.10 of this part.

(f) To expedite processing of your application, you may notify BLM in writing that you are waiving paying reasonable costs and are electing to pay the full actual costs incurred by BLM in processing your application and monitoring your grant.
