
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2804 - Applying for FLPMA Grants
####### ยง 2804.27 What fees must I pay if BLM denies my application or if I withdraw my application?

If the BLM denies your application or you withdraw it, you must still pay any application filing fees under ยง 2804.12(b)(2), and any processing fee set forth at ยง 2804.14, unless you have a Processing Category 5 or 6 application. Then, the following conditions apply:

(a) If BLM denies your Processing Category 5 or 6 application, you are liable for all reasonable costs that the United States incurred in processing it. The money you have not paid is due within 30 calendar days after receiving a bill for the amount due.

(b) You may withdraw your application in writing before BLM issues a grant. If you do so, you are liable for all reasonable processing costs the United States has incurred up to the time you withdraw the application and for the reasonable costs of terminating your application. Any money you have not paid is due within 30 calendar days after receiving a bill for the amount due. Any money you paid that is not used to cover costs the United States incurred as a result of your application will be refunded to you.
