
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2804 - Applying for FLPMA Grants
####### ยง 2804.31 How will the BLM call for site testing for solar and wind energy?
######## Call for site testing.

(a)The BLM may, at its own discretion, initiate a call for site testing. The BLM will publish this call for site testing in theand may also use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the potential right-of-way, or the Internet. Theand any other notices will include:

(1) The date, time, and location that site testing applications identified under ยง 2801.9(d)(1) of this part may be submitted;

(2) The date by which applicants will be notified of the BLM's decision on timely submitted site testing applications;

(3) The legal land description of the area for which site testing applications are being requested; and

(4) The qualification requirements for applicants (see ยง 2803.10).

(b) You may request that the BLM hold a call for site testing for certain public lands. The BLM may proceed with a call for site testing at its own discretion.

(c) The BLM may identify lands surrounding the site testing as designated leasing areas under ยง 2802.11. If a designated leasing area is established, a competitive offer for a development lease under subpart 2809 may be held at the discretion of the BLM.
