
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2805 - Terms and Conditions of Grants
####### ยง 2805.11 What does a grant contain?
######## How long you can use the right-of-way.

(b)Each grant will state the length of time that you are authorized to use the right-of-way.

(1) BLM will consider the following factors in establishing a reasonable term:

(i) The public purpose served;

(ii) Cost and useful life of the facility;

(iii) Time limitations imposed by licenses or permits required by other Federal agencies and state, tribal, or local governments; and

(iv) The time necessary to accomplish the purpose of the grant.

(2) Specific terms for solar and wind energy grants and leases are as follows:

(i) For an energy site-specific testing grant, the term is 3 years or less, without the option of renewal;

(ii) For an energy project-area testing grant, the initial term is 3 years or less, with the option to renew for one additional 3-year period when the renewal application is also accompanied by a solar or wind energy development application and a POD as required by ยง 2804.25(e)(3);

(iii) For a short-term grant for all other associated actions not specifically included in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, such as geotechnical testing and other temporary land disturbing activities, the term is 3 years or less;

(iv) For solar and wind energy development grants, the term is up to 30 years (plus the initial partial year of issuance) with adjustable terms and conditions. The grantee may submit an application for renewal under ยง 2805.14(g); and

(v) For solar and wind energy development leases located inside designated leasing areas, the term is fixed for 30 years (plus the initial partial year of issuance). The lessee may submit an application for renewal under ยง 2805.14(g).

(3) All grants and leases, except those issued for a term of 3 years or less and those issued in perpetuity, will expire on December 31 of the final year of the grant or lease. For grants and leases with terms greater than 3 years, the actual term includes the number of full years specified, plus the initial partial year, if any.
