
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2805 - Terms and Conditions of Grants
####### § 2805.20 Bonding requirements.
######## Bond amount.

(3)Unless you hold a solar or wind energy lease under subpart 2809, the bond amount will be determined based on the preparation of a RCE, which the BLM may require you to prepare and submit. The estimate must include our cost to administer a reclamation contract and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy. The BLM may also consider other factors, such as salvage value, when determining the bond amount.

(4) You must post a bond on or before the deadline that we give you.

(5) Bond components that must be addressed when determining the RCE amount include, but are not limited to:

(i) Environmental liabilities such as use of hazardous materials waste and hazardous substances, herbicide use, the use of petroleum-based fluids, and dust control or soil stabilization materials;

(ii) The decommissioning, removal, and proper disposal, as appropriate, of any improvements and facilities; and

(iii) Interim and final reclamation, re-vegetation, recontouring, and soil stabilization. This component must address the potential for flood events and downstream sedimentation from the site that may result in offsite impacts.

(6) You may ask us to accept a replacement performance and reclamation bond at any time after the approval of the initial bond. We will review the replacement bond for adequacy. A surety company is not released from obligations that accrued while the surety bond was in effect unless the replacement bond covers those obligations to our satisfaction.

(7) You must notify us that reclamation has occurred and you may request that the BLM reevaluate your bond. If we determine that you have completed reclamation, we may release all or part of your bond.

(8) If you hold a grant, you are still liable under § 2807.12 if:

(i) We release all or part of your bond;

(ii) The bond amount does not cover the cost of reclamation; or

(iii) There is no bond in place;

(b) If you hold a grant for solar energy development outside of designated leasing areas, you must provide a performance and reclamation bond (see paragraph (a) of this section) prior to the BLM issuing a Notice to Proceed (see § 2805.12(c)(1)). We will determine the bond amount based on the RCE (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section) and it must be no less than $10,000 per acre that will be disturbed;

(c) If you hold a grant for wind energy development outside of designated leasing areas, you must provide a performance and reclamation bond (see paragraph (a) of this section) prior to the BLM issuing a Notice to Proceed (see § 2805.12(c)(1)). We will determine the bond amount based on the RCE (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section) and it must be no less than $10,000 per authorized turbine less than 1 MW in nameplate capacity or $20,000 per authorized turbine equal to or greater than 1 MW in nameplate capacity; and

(d) For short-term right-of-way grants for energy site or project-area testing, the bond amount must be no less than $2,000 per authorized meteorological tower or instrumentation facility location and must be provided before the written approval to proceed with ground disturbing activities (see § 2805.12(c)(1)).
