
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2806 - Annual Rents and Payments
####### General Provisions
######## ยง 2806.13 What happens if I do not pay rents and fees or if I pay the rents or fees late?
######### see

(c) If BLM does not receive your rent, late payment fee, and any administrative fees within 90 calendar days after the rent was due, BLM may terminate your grant under ยง 2807.17 of this part and you may not remove any facility or equipment without BLM's written permission (ยง 2807.19 of this part). The rent due, late payment fees, and any administrative fees remain a debt that you owe to the United States.

(d) If you pay the rent, late payment fee, and any administrative fees after BLM has terminated the grant, BLM does not automatically reinstate the grant. You must file a new application with BLM. BLM will consider the history of your failure to timely pay rent in deciding whether to issue you a new grant.

(e) Subject to applicable laws and regulations, we will retroactively bill for uncollected or under-collected rent, fees, and late payments, if:

(1) A clerical error is identified;

(2) An adjustment to rental schedules is not applied; or

(3) An omission or error in complying with the terms and conditions of the authorized right-of-way is identified.

(f) You may appeal any adverse decision BLM takes against your grant under ยง 2801.10 of this part.

(g) We will not approve any further activities associated with your right-of-way until we receive any outstanding payments that are due.
