
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2806 - Annual Rents and Payments
####### Solar Energy Rights-of-Way
######## ยง 2806.52 Rents and fees for solar energy development grants.
######### Assignment of counties.

(2)The BLM will calculate the per acre zone rate in paragraph (a)(1) of this section by using a State-specific factor to assign a county to a zone in the solar energy acreage rent schedule. The BLM will calculate a State-specific factor and apply it to the NASS data (county average per acre land and building value) to determine the per acre value and assign a county (or other geographical area) to a zone. The State-specific factor represents the percent difference between improved agricultural land and unimproved rangeland values, using NASS data. The calculation for determining the State-specific factor is (A/B)-(C/D) = E where:

(i) A = the NASS Census statewide average per acre value of non-irrigated acres;

(ii) B = the NASS Census statewide average per acre land and building value;

(iii) C = the NASS Census total statewide acres in farmsteads, homes, buildings, livestock facilities, ponds, roads, wasteland, etc.;

(iv) D = the total statewide acres in farms; and

(v) E = the State-specific percent factor or 20 percent, whichever is greater.

(3) The initial assignment of counties to the zones on the solar energy acreage rent schedule will be based upon the most recent NASS Census data (2012) for years 2016 through 2020. The BLM may on its own or in response to requests consider making regional adjustments to those initial assignments, based on evidence that the NASS Census values do not accurately reflect the value of the BLM-managed lands in a given area. The BLM will update this rent schedule once every 5 years by re-assigning counties to reflect the updated NASS Census values as described in ยง 2806.21 and recalculate the State-specific percent factor once every 10 years as described in ยง 2806.22(b).
