
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2806 - Annual Rents and Payments
####### Wind Energy Rights-of-Way
######## § 2806.61 Scheduled Rate Adjustment.

(a) The BLM will adjust your acreage rent and MW capacity fee over the course of your authorization as described in these regulations. For new grants or leases, you may choose either the standard rate adjustment method (see § 2806.52(a)(5) and (b)(3) for grants; see § 2806.54(a)(4) or (c) for leases) or the scheduled rate adjustment method (see § 2806.52(d) for grants; see § 2806.54(d) for leases). Once you select a rate adjustment method, that method will be fixed until you renew your grant or lease (see § 2807.22).

(b) For new grants or leases, if you select the scheduled rate adjustment method you must notify the BLM of your decision in writing. Your decision must be received by the BLM before your grant or lease is issued. If you do not select the scheduled rate adjustment method, the standard rate adjustment method will apply.

(c) If you hold a grant that is in effect prior to January 18, 2017, you may either accept the standard rate adjustment method or request in writing that the BLM apply the scheduled rate adjustment method, as set forth in § 2806.52(d), to your grant. To take advantage of the scheduled rate adjustment option, your request must be received by the BLM before December 19, 2018. The BLM will continue to apply the standard rate adjustment method to adjust your rates unless and until it receives your request to use the scheduled rate adjustment method.
