
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2806 - Annual Rents and Payments
####### Wind Energy Rights-of-Way
######## ยง 2806.62 Rents and fees for wind energy development grants.
######### MW rate phase-in.

(4)This paragraph (b)(4) applies unless you selected the scheduled rate adjustment method (see ยง 2806.61). If you hold a wind energy development grant, the MW rate will be phased in as follows:

(i) There is a 3-year phase-in of the MW rate when electricity generation begins or is scheduled to begin in the approved POD, whichever comes first, at the rates of:

(A) 25 percent for the first year. This rate applies for the first partial calendar year of operations;

(B) 50 percent for the second year; and

(C) 100 percent for the third and subsequent years of operations.

(ii) After generation of electricity starts and an approved POD provides for staged development:

(A) The 3-year phase-in of the MW rate applies to each stage of development; and

(B) The MW capacity fee is calculated using the authorized MW capacity approved for that stage, plus any previously approved stages, multiplied by the MW rate.

(iii) The MW rate may be phased in further, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) The general payment provisions for rents described in this subpart, except for ยง 2806.14(a)(4), also apply to the MW capacity fee.
