
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2806 - Annual Rents and Payments
####### Wind Energy Rights-of-Way
######## § 2806.64 Rents and fees for wind energy development leases.
######### MW rate phase-in.

(c)This paragraph (c) applies unless you selected the scheduled rate adjustment method (see § 2806.61). If you hold a wind energy development lease, the MW capacity fee will be phased in, starting when electricity begins to be generated. The MW capacity fee for years 1-20 will be calculated using the MW rate in effect when the lease is issued. The MW capacity fee for years 21-30 will be calculated using the MW rate in effect in year 21 of the lease. These rates will be phased-in as follows:

(1) For years 1 through 10 of the lease, plus any initial partial year, the MW capacity fee is calculated by multiplying the project's authorized MW capacity by 50 percent of the wind energy technology MW rate, as described in § 2806.62(b)(2);

(2) For years 11 through 20 of the lease, the MW capacity fee is calculated by multiplying the project's authorized MW capacity by 100 percent of the wind energy technology MW rate described in § 2806.62(b)(2);

(3) For years 21 through 30 of the lease, the MW capacity fee is calculated by multiplying the project's authorized MW capacity by 100 percent of the wind energy technology MW rate as described in § 2806.62(b)(2);

(4) If the lease is renewed, the MW capacity fee is calculated using the MW rates at the beginning of the renewed lease period and will remain at that rate through the initial 10 year period of the renewal term. The MW capacity fee will continue to adjust at the beginning of each subsequent 10 year period of the renewed lease term to reflect the then currently applicable MW rates; and

(5) If an approved POD provides for staged development, the MW capacity fee is calculated using the MW capacity approved for that stage plus any previously approved stage, multiplied by the MW rate, as described in this section.
