
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2807 - Grant Administration and Operation
####### ยง 2807.12 If I hold a grant, for what am I liable?

(a) If you hold a grant, you are liable to the United States and to third parties for any damage or injury they incur in connection with your use and occupancy of the right-of-way.

(b) You are strictly liable for any activity or facility associated with your right-of-way area which BLM determines presents a foreseeable hazard or risk of damage or injury to the United States. BLM will specify in the grant any activity or facility posing such hazard or risk, and the financial limitations on damages commensurate with such hazard or risk.

(1) BLM will not impose strict liability for damage or injury resulting primarily from an act of war, an act of God, or the negligence of the United States, except as otherwise provided by law.

(2) As used in this section, strict liability extends to costs incurred by the Federal government to control or abate conditions, such as fire or oil spills, which threaten life, property, or the environment, even if the threat occurs to areas that are not under Federal jurisdiction. This liability is separate and apart from liability under other provisions of law.

(3) You are strictly liable to the United States for damage or injury up to $2 million for any one incident. BLM will update this amount annually to adjust for changes in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average (CPI-U) as of July of each year (difference in CPI-U from July of one year to July of the following year), rounded to the nearest $1,000. This financial limitation does not apply to the release or discharge of hazardous substances on or near the grant, or where liability is otherwise not subject to this financial limitation under applicable law.

(4) BLM will determine your liability for any amount in excess of the $2 million strict liability limitation (as adjusted) through the ordinary rules of negligence.

(5) The rules of subrogation apply in cases where a third party caused the damage or injury.

(c) If you cannot satisfy claims for injury or damage, all owners of any interests in, and all affiliates or subsidiaries of any holder of, a grant, except for corporate stockholders, are jointly and severally liable to the United States.

(d) If BLM issues a grant to more than one person, each is jointly and severally liable.

(e) By accepting the grant, you agree to fully indemnify or hold the United States harmless for liability, damage, or claims arising in connection with your use and occupancy of the right-of-way area.

(f) We address liability of state, tribal, and local governments in ยง 2807.13 of this subpart.

(g) The provisions of this section do not limit or exclude other remedies.
