
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2807 - Grant Administration and Operation
####### ยง 2807.16 Under what conditions may BLM order an immediate temporary suspension of my activities?

(a) If BLM determines that you have violated one or more of the terms, conditions, or stipulations of your grant, we can order an immediate temporary suspension of activities within the right-of-way area to protect public health or safety or the environment. BLM can require you to stop your activities before holding an administrative proceeding on the matter.

(b) BLM may issue the immediate temporary suspension order orally or in writing to you, your contractor or subcontractor, or to any representative, agent, or employee representing you or conducting the activity. When you receive the order, you must stop the activity immediately. BLM will, as soon as practical, confirm an oral order by sending or hand delivering to you or your agent at your address a written suspension order explaining the reasons for it.

(c) You may file a written request for permission to resume activities at any time after BLM issues the order. In the request, give the facts supporting your request and the reasons you believe that BLM should lift the order. BLM must grant or deny your request within 5 business days after receiving it. If BLM does not respond within 5 business days, BLM has denied your request. You may appeal the denial under ยง 2801.10 of this part.

(d) The immediate temporary suspension order is effective until you receive BLM's written notice to proceed with your activities.
