
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2807 - Grant Administration and Operation
####### ยง 2807.17 Under what conditions may BLM suspend or terminate my grant?

(a) BLM may suspend or terminate your grant if you do not comply with applicable laws and regulations or any terms, conditions, or stipulations of the grant (such as rent payments), or if you abandon the right-of-way.

(b) A grant also terminates when:

(1) The grant contains a term or condition that has been met that requires the grant to terminate;

(2) BLM consents in writing to your request to terminate the grant; or

(3) It is required by law to terminate.

(c) Your failure to use your right-of-way for its authorized purpose for any continuous 5-year period creates a presumption of abandonment. BLM will notify you in writing of this presumption. You may rebut the presumption of abandonment by proving that you used the right-of-way or that your failure to use the right-of-way was due to circumstances beyond your control, such as acts of God, war, or casualties not attributable to you.

(d) The BLM may suspend or terminate another Federal agency's grant only if:

(1) The terms and conditions of the Federal agency's grant allow it; or

(2) The agency head holding the grant consents to it.

(e) You may appeal a decision under this section under ยง 2801.10 of this part.
