
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2800 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE FEDERAL LAND POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT
###### Subpart 2808 - Trespass
####### ยง 2808.11 What will BLM do if it determines that I am in trespass?

(a) BLM will notify you in writing of the trespass and explain your liability. Your liability includes:

(1) Reimbursing the United States for all costs incurred in investigating and terminating the trespass;

(2) Paying the rental for the lands, as provided for in subpart 2806 of this part, for the current and past years of trespass, or, where applicable, the cumulative value of the current use fee, amortization fee, and maintenance fee for unauthorized use of any BLM-administered road; and

(3) Rehabilitating and restoring any damaged lands or resources. If you do not rehabilitate and restore the lands and resources within the time set by BLM in the notice, you will be liable for the costs the United States incurs in rehabilitating and restoring the lands and resources.

(b) In addition to amounts you owe under paragraph (a) of this section, BLM may assess penalties as follows:

(1) For willful or repeated non-willful trespass, the penalty is two times the rent. For roads, the penalty is two times the charges for road use, amortization, and maintenance which have accrued since the trespass began.

(2) For non-willful trespass not resolved within 30 calendar days after receiving the written notice under paragraph (a) of this section, the penalty is an amount equal to the rent. To resolve the trespass you must meet one of the conditions identified in 43 CFR 9239.7-1. For roads, the penalty is an amount equal to the charges for road use, amortization, and maintenance which have accrued since the trespass began.
