
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2810 - TRAMROADS AND LOGGING ROADS
###### Subpart 2812 - Over O. and C. and Coos Bay Revested Lands
####### ยง 2812.1-2 Contents.

(a) An individual applicant and each member of any unincorporated association which is an applicant must state in the application whether he is a native born or a naturalized citizen of the United States. Naturalized citizens will be required to furnish evidence of naturalization pursuant to the provisions of ยง 2802.1-4.

(b) An application by a private corporation must be accompanied by two copies of its articles of incorporation, one of which must be certified by the proper official of the company under its corporate seal, or by the secretary of the State where organized. A corporation organized in a State other than Oregon must submit a certificate issued by the State of Oregon attesting that the corporation is authorized to transact business within that State. The requirements of this paragraph shall be deemed satisfied if the corporation, having once filed the required documents, makes specific reference to the date and case number of such previous applications, states what changes, if any, have been made since the prior filings, and includes a statement that the right of the company to do business in the State of Oregon has not lapsed or terminated.

(c) Where the application is for a right-of-way on any portion of which the applicant proposes to construct a road, it must be accompanied by two copies of a map prepared on a scale of 4 inches or 8 inches to the mile. Showing the survey of the right-of-way so that it may be accurately located on the ground. The map should comply with the following requirements, except as the authorized officer may waive in any particular instance all or any of such requirements:

(d) Where the application is for the use of an existing road, a map adequate to show the location thereof will be required, together with a statement of the specific nature and location of any proposed improvements to such road. A blank map suitable for most cases may be procured from the appropriate district forester.

(e) Every application for a right-of-way must also be accompanied by a diagram indicating the roads and rights-of-way which form an integral part of the road system with which the requested right-of-way will connect, the portions of such road system which the applicant directly controls within the meaning of ยง 2812.0-5(i), the portions thereof which the applicant indirectly controls within the meaning of ยง 2812.0-5(j), and the portions thereof as to which the applicant has no control within the meaning of such sections. As to the portions over which the applicant has no control, he must furnish a statement showing for the two years preceding the date of the filing of the application, all periods of time that he had direct or indirect control thereof, and the date and nature of any changes in such control. The diagram shall also contain the name of the person whom the applicant believes directly controls any portion of such road system which the applicant does not directly control. Where a right-of-way for a railroad is involved, the applicant must indicate which portions of the right-of-way will be available for use as truck roads upon the removal of the rails and ties and the probable date of such removal. Blank diagram forms, suitable for most cases, may be obtained from the appropriate district forester.
