
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2884 - Applying for MLA Grants or TUPs
####### ยง 2884.12 What is the processing fee for a grant or TUP application?

(a) You must pay a processing fee with the application to cover the costs to the Federal Government of processing your application before the Federal Government incurs them. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, if processing your application will involve Federal agencies other than the BLM, your fee may also include the reasonable costs estimated to be incurred by those Federal agencies. Instead of paying the BLM a fee for the estimated work of other Federal agencies in processing your application, you may pay other Federal agencies directly for the costs estimated to be incurred by them in processing your application. The fees for Processing Categories 1 through 4 are one-time fees and are not refundable. The fees are categorized based on an estimate of the amount of time that the Federal Government will expend to process your application and issue a decision granting or denying the application.

(b) There is no processing fee if work is estimated to take 1 hour or less. Processing fees are based on categories. We update the processing fees for Categories 1 through 4 in the schedule each calendar year, based on the previous year's change in the IPD-GDP, as measured second quarter to second quarter. We will round these changes to the nearest dollar. We will update Category 5 processing fees as specified in the Master Agreement. These processing categories and the estimated range of Federal work hours for each category are:
