
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2884 - Applying for MLA Grants or TUPs
####### ยง 2884.12 What is the processing fee for a grant or TUP application?
######## http://www.blm.gov.

(c) You may obtain a copy of the current schedule from any BLM State, district, or field office or by writing: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, 20 M Street SE., Room 2134LM, Washington, DC 20003. The BLM also posts the current schedule at

(d) After an initial review of your application, BLM will notify you of the processing category into which your application fits. You must then submit the appropriate payment for that category before BLM begins processing your application. Your signature on a cost recovery Master Agreement constitutes your agreement with the processing category decision. If you disagree with the category that BLM has determined for your application, you may appeal the decision under ยง 2881.10 of this part. If you paid the processing fee and you appeal a Processing Category 1 through 4 or a Processing Category 6 determination to IBLA, BLM will process your application while the appeal is pending. If IBLA finds in your favor, you will receive a refund or adjustment of your processing fee.

(e) In processing your application, BLM may determine at any time that the application requires preparing an EIS. If this occurs, BLM will send you a decision changing your processing category to Processing Category 6. You may appeal the decision under ยง 2881.10 of this part.

(f) If you hold an authorization relating to TAPS, BLM will send you a written statement seeking reimbursement of actual costs within 60 calendar days after the close of each quarter. Quarters end on the last day of March, June, September, and December. In processing applications and administering authorizations relating to TAPS, the Department of the Interior will avoid unnecessary employment of personnel and needless expenditure of funds.
