
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2884 - Applying for MLA Grants or TUPs
####### ยง 2884.17 How will BLM process my Processing Category 6 application?

(a) For Processing Category 6 applications, you and the BLM must enter into a written agreement that describes how we will process your application. The final agreement consists of a work plan, a financial plan, and a description of any existing agreements you have with other Federal agencies for cost reimbursement associated with such application.

(b) In processing your application, BLM will:

(1) Determine the issues subject to analysis under NEPA;

(2) Prepare a preliminary work plan;

(3) Develop a preliminary financial plan, which estimates the actual costs of processing your application and monitoring your project;

(4) Discuss with you:

(i) The preliminary plans and data;

(ii) The availability of funds and personnel;

(iii) Your options for the timing of processing and monitoring fee payments; and

(iv) Financial information you must submit; and

(5) Complete final scoping and develop final work and financial plans which reflect any work you have agreed to do. BLM will also present you with the final estimate of the costs you must reimburse the United States, including the cost for monitoring the project.

(c) BLM retains the option to prepare any environmental documents related to your application. If BLM allows you to prepare any environmental documents and conduct any studies that BLM needs to process your application, you must do the work following BLM standards. For this purpose, you and BLM may enter into a written agreement. BLM will make the final determinations and conclusions arising from such work.

(d) BLM will periodically, as stated in the agreement, estimate processing costs for a specific work period and notify you of the amount due. You must pay the amount due before BLM will continue working on your application. If your payment exceeds the costs that the United States incurred for the work, BLM will either adjust the next billing to reflect the excess, or refund you the excess under 43 U.S.C. 1734. You may not deduct any amount from a payment without BLM's prior written approval.

(e) We may collect funds to reimburse the Federal Government for reasonable costs for processing applications and other documents under this part relating to the Federal lands.
