
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2884 - Applying for MLA Grants or TUPs
####### ยง 2884.20 What are the public notification requirements for my application?

(a) When the BLM receives your application, it will publish a notice in theand may use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the lands involved or the Internet. If we determine the pipeline(s) will have only minor environmental impacts, we are not required to publish this notice. The notice will, at a minimum, contain:

(1) A description of the pipeline system; and

(2) A statement of where the application and related documents are available for review.

(b) BLM will send copies of the published notice for review and comment to the:

(1) Governor of each state within which the pipeline system would be located;

(2) Head of each local or tribal government or jurisdiction within which the pipeline system would be located; and

(3) Heads of other Federal agencies whose jurisdiction includes lands within which the pipeline system would be located.

(c) If your application involves a pipeline that is 24 inches or more in diameter, BLM will also send notice of the application to the appropriate committees of Congress in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 185(w).

(d) We may hold public hearings or meetings on your application if we determine that there is sufficient interest to warrant the time and expense of such hearings or meetings. We will publish a notice in theand may use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the lands involved or the Internet, to announce in advance any public hearings or meetings.
