
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2885 - Terms and Conditions of MLA Grants and TUPs
####### § 2885.11 What terms and conditions must I comply with?
######## Terms and conditions of use.

(b)BLM may modify your proposed use or change the route or location of the facilities in your application. By accepting a grant or TUP, you agree to use the lands described in the grant or TUP for the purposes set forth in the grant or TUP. You also agree to comply with, and be bound by, the following terms and conditions. During construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of the project you must:

(1) To the extent practicable, comply with all existing and subsequently enacted, issued, or amended Federal laws and regulations, and state laws and regulations applicable to the authorized use;

(2) Rebuild and repair roads, fences, and established trails destroyed or damaged by constructing, operating, maintaining, or terminating the project;

(3) Build and maintain suitable crossings for existing roads and significant trails that intersect the project;

(4) Do everything reasonable to prevent and suppress fires on or in the immediate vicinity of the right-of-way or TUP area;

(5) Not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment during any phase of the project because of race, creed, color, sex, or national origin. You must also require subcontractors to not discriminate;

(6) Pay the rent and monitoring fees described in §§ 2885.19 and 2885.23 of this subpart;

(7) The BLM may require that you obtain, or certify that you have obtained, a performance and reclamation bond or other acceptable security to cover any losses, damages, or injury to human health, the environment, and property incurred in connection with your use and occupancy of the right-of-way or TUP area, including terminating the grant or TUP, and to secure all obligations imposed by the grant or TUP and applicable laws and regulations. Your bond must cover liability for damages or injuries resulting from releases or discharges of hazardous materials. We may require a bond, an increase or decrease in the value of an existing bond, or other acceptable security at any time during the term of the grant or TUP. This bond is in addition to any individual lease, statewide, or nationwide oil and gas bonds you may have. All other provisions in§ 2805.12(b) of this chapter regarding bond requirements for grants and leases issued under FLPMA also apply to grants or TUPs for oil and gas pipelines issued under this part;
