
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2885 - Terms and Conditions of MLA Grants and TUPs
####### ยง 2885.17 What happens if I do not pay rents and fees or if I pay the rents or fees late?

(a) If BLM does not receive the rent payment within 15 calendar days after the rent was due under ยง 2885.16 of this subpart, BLM will charge you a late payment fee of $25.00 or 10 percent of the rent you owe, whichever is greater, not to exceed $500 per authorization.

(b) If BLM does not receive your rent payment and late payment fee within 30 calendar days after rent was due, BLM may collect other administrative fees provided by statute.

(c) If BLM does not receive your rent, late payment fee, and any administrative fees within 90 calendar days after the rent was due, BLM may terminate your grant under ยง 2886.17 of this part and you may not remove any facility or equipment without BLM's written permission. The rent due, late payment fees, and any administrative fees remain a debt that you owe to the United States.

(d) If you pay the rent, late payment fees, and any administrative fees after BLM has terminated the grant, BLM does not automatically reinstate the grant. You must file a new application with BLM. BLM will consider the history of your failure to timely pay rent in deciding whether to issue you a new grant.

(e) We will retroactively bill for uncollected or under-collected rent, including late payment and administrative fees, upon discovery if:

(1) A clerical error is identified;

(2) An adjustment to rental schedules is not applied; or

(3) An omission or error in complying with the terms and conditions of the authorized right-of-way is identified.

(f) You may appeal any adverse decision BLM takes against your grant or TUP under ยง 2881.10 of this part.
