
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2886 - Operations on MLA Grants and TUPs
####### ยง 2886.15 How is grant or TUP administration affected if the BLM land my grant or TUP encumbers is transferred to another Federal agency or out of Federal ownership?

(a) If there is a proposal to transfer the BLM land your grant or TUP encumbers to another Federal agency, BLM may, after reasonable notice to you, transfer administration of your grant or TUP, for the lands BLM formerly administered, to another Federal agency, unless doing so would diminish your rights. If BLM determines your rights would be diminished by such a transfer, BLM can still transfer the land, but retain administration of your grant or TUP under existing terms and conditions.

(b) The BLM will provide reasonable notice to you if there is a proposal to transfer the BLM land your grant or TUP encumbers out of Federal ownership. If you request, the BLM will negotiate new grant or TUP terms and conditions with you. This may include increasing the term of your grant to a 30-year term or replacing your TUP with a grant. These changes, if any, become effective prior to the time the land is transferred out of Federal ownership. The BLM may then, in conformance with existing policies and procedures:

(1) Transfer the land subject to your grant or TUP. In this case, administration of your grant or TUP for the lands BLM formerly administered is transferred to the new owner of the land;

(2) Transfer the land, but BLM retains administration of your grant or TUP; or

(3) Reserve to the United States the land your grant or TUP encumbers, and BLM retains administration of your grant or TUP.

(c) You and the new land owner may agree to negotiate new grant or TUP terms and conditions any time after the land encumbered by your grant or TUP is transferred out of Federal ownership.
