
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2886 - Operations on MLA Grants and TUPs
####### ยง 2886.16 Under what conditions may BLM order an immediate temporary suspension of my activities?

(a) Subject to ยง 2886.11, BLM can order an immediate temporary suspension of grant or TUP activities within the right-of-way or TUP area to protect public health or safety or the environment. BLM can require you to stop your activities before holding an administrative proceeding on the matter and may order immediate remedial action.

(b) BLM may issue the immediate temporary suspension order orally or in writing to you, your contractor or subcontractor, or to any representative, agent, or employee representing you or conducting the activity. BLM may take this action whether or not any action is being or has been taken by other Federal or state agencies. When you receive the order, you must stop the activity immediately. BLM will, as soon as practical, confirm an oral order by sending or hand delivering to you or your agent at your address a written suspension order explaining the reasons for it.

(c) You may file a written request for permission to resume activities at any time after BLM issues the order. In the request, give the facts supporting your request and the reasons you believe that BLM should lift the order. BLM must grant or deny your request within 5 business days after receiving it. If BLM does not respond within 5 business days, BLM has denied your request. You may appeal the denial under ยง 2881.10 of this part.

(d) The immediate temporary suspension order is effective until you receive BLM's written notice to proceed with your activities.
