
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2886 - Operations on MLA Grants and TUPs
####### ยง 2886.18 How will I know that BLM intends to suspend or terminate my grant or TUP?
######## Grants.

(a)When BLM determines that it will suspend or terminate your grant under ยง 2886.17 of this subpart, it will send you a written notice of this determination. The determination will provide you a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation, start your use, or resume your use of the right-of-way, as appropriate. In the notice BLM will state the date by which you must correct the violation or start or resume use of the right-of-way.

(1) If you have not corrected the violation or started or resumed use of the right-of-way by the date specified in the notice, BLM will refer the matter to the Office of Hearings and Appeals. An ALJ in the Office of Hearings and Appeals will provide an appropriate administrative proceeding under 5 U.S.C. 554 and determine whether grounds for suspension or termination exist. No administrative proceeding is required where the grant by its terms provides that it terminates on the occurrence of a fixed or agreed upon condition, event, or time.

(2) BLM will suspend or terminate the grant if the ALJ determines that grounds exist for suspension or termination and the suspension or termination is justified.
