
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2880 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
###### Subpart 2886 - Operations on MLA Grants and TUPs
####### ยง 2886.18 How will I know that BLM intends to suspend or terminate my grant or TUP?
######## TUPs.

(b)When BLM determines that it will suspend or terminate your TUP, it will send you a written notice and provide you a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation or start or resume use of the TUP area. The notice will also provide you information on how to file a written request for reconsideration.

(1) You may file a written request with the BLM office that issued the notice, asking for reconsideration of the determination to suspend or terminate your TUP. BLM must receive this request within 10 business days after you receive the notice.

(2) BLM will provide you with a written decision within 20 business days after receiving your request for reconsideration. The decision will include a finding of fact made by the next higher level of authority than that who made the suspension or termination determination. The decision will also inform you whether BLM suspended or terminated your TUP or cancelled the notice made under paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) If the decision is adverse to you, you may appeal it under ยง 2881.10 of this part.
