
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter B - Land Resource Management (2000) <HED1>Group 2000 - Land Resource Management; General</HED1>
##### PART 2920 - LEASES, PERMITS AND EASEMENTS
###### Subpart 2920 - Leases, Permits and Easements: General Provisions
####### ยง 2920.1-1 Authorized use.

Any use not specifically authorized under other laws or regulations and not specifically forbidden by law may be authorized under this part. Uses which may be authorized include residential, agricultural, industrial, and commercial, and uses that cannot be authorized under title V of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act or section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act. Land use authorizations shall be granted under the following categories:

(a) Leases shall be used to authorize uses of public lands involving substantial construction, development, or land improvement and the investment of large amounts of capital which are to be amortized over time. A lease conveys a possessory interest and is revocable only in accordance with its terms and the provisions of ยง 2920.9-3 of this title. Leases shall be issued for a term, determined by the authorized officer, that is consistent with the time required to amortize the capital investment.

(b) Permits shall be used to authorize uses of public lands for not to exceed 3 years that involve either little or no land improvement, construction, or investment, or investment which can be amortized within the term of the permit. A permit conveys no possessory interest. The permit is renewable at the discretion of the authorized officer and may be revoked in accordance with its terms and the provisions of ยง 2920.9-3 of this title. Permits shall be issued on a form approved by the Director, Bureau of Land Management, that has been filed by the applicant with the appropriate Bureau of Land Management office.

(c) Easements may be used to assure that uses of public lands are compatible with non-Federal uses occurring on adjacent or nearby land. The term of the easement shall be determined by the authorized officer. An easement granted under this part may be issued only for purposes not authorized under title V of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act or section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act.

(d) No land use authorization is required under the regulations in this part for casual use of the public lands.
