
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Special Procedural Rules Applicable to Practice and Procedure for Hearings, Decisions, and Administrative Review Under Part 17 of This Title - Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of the Interior - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
##### Designation and Responsibilities of Administrative Law Judge
###### ยง 4.807 Authority and responsibilities.

The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to preside over the parties and the proceedings, conduct the hearing, and make decisions in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554 through 557. His powers shall include, but not be limited to, the power to:

(a) Hold conferences to settle, simplify, or fix the issues in a proceeding, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding.

(b) Require parties to state their position with respect to the various issues in the proceedings.

(c) Establish rules for media coverage of the proceedings.

(d) Rule on motions and other procedural items in matters before him.

(e) Regulate the course of the hearing, the conduct of counsel, parties, witnesses, and other participants.

(f) Administer oaths, call witnesses on his own motion, examine witnesses, and direct witnesses to testify.

(g) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence.

(h) Fix time limits for submission of written documents in matters before him.

(i) Take any action authorized by these regulations, by 5 U.S.C. 556, or by other pertinent law.
