
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Special Procedural Rules Applicable to Practice and Procedure for Hearings, Decisions, and Administrative Review Under Part 17 of This Title - Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of the Interior - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
##### Form and Filing of Documents
###### ยง 4.813 Filing and service.

(a) All documents submitted in a proceeding shall be served on all parties. The original and two copies of each document shall be submitted for filing. Filings shall be made with the administrative law judge or other appropriate Departmental official before whom the proceeding is pending. With respect to exhibits and transcripts of testimony, only originals need be filed.

(b) Service upon a party or amicus shall be made by delivering one copy of each document requiring service in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, properly addressed with postage prepaid, to the party or amicus or his attorney, or designated representative. Filing will be made in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the administrative law judge or other appropriate Departmental official before whom the proceeding is pending.

(c) The date of filing or of service shall be the day when the matter is deposited in the U.S. mail or is delivered in person.

(d) A document may be electronically transmitted under the terms specified in ยง 4.22, subpart B.
