
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3100 - Onshore Oil and Gas Leasing: General
####### ยง 3100.0-3 Authority.
######## Exceptions.

(2)(i) Units of the National Park System, except as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section;

(ii) Incorporated cities, towns and villages;

(iii) Naval petroleum and oil shale reserves and the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska;

(iv) Tidelands or submerged coastal lands within the continental shelf adjacent or littoral to lands within the jurisdiction of the United States;

(v) Lands acquired by the United States for development of helium, fissionable material deposits or other minerals essential to the defense of the country, except oil, gas and other minerals subject to leasing under the Act;

(vi) Lands reported as excess under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949;

(vii) Lands acquired by the United States by foreclosure or otherwise for resale.

(viii) Lands recommended for wilderness allocation by the surface managing agency;

(ix) Lands within Bureau of Land Management wilderness study areas;

(x) Lands designated by Congress as wilderness study areas, except where oil and gas leasing is specifically allowed to continue by the statute designating the study area;

(xi) Lands within areas allocated for wilderness or further planning in Executive Communication 1504, Ninety-Sixth Congress (House Document numbered 96-119), unless such lands are allocated to uses other than wilderness by a land and resource management plan or have been released to uses other than wilderness by an Act of Congress; and

(xii) Lands within the National Wilderness Preservation System, subject to valid existing rights under section 4(d)(3) of the Wilderness Act established before midnight, December 31, 1983, unless otherwise provided by law.

(c) National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska is subject to lease under the Department of the Interior Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 1981 (42 U.S.C. 6508).

(d) Where oil or gas is being drained from lands otherwise unavailable for leasing, there is implied authority in the agency having jurisdiction of those lands to grant authority to the Bureau of Land Management to lease such lands (see 43 U.S.C. 1457; also Attorney General's Opinion of April 2, 1941 (Vol. 40 Op. Atty. Gen. 41)).

(e) Where lands previously withdrawn or reserved from the public domain are no longer needed by the agency for which the lands were withdrawn or reserved and such lands are retained by the General Services Administration, or where acquired lands are declared as excess to or surplus by the General Services Administration, authority to lease such lands may be transferred to the Department in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 and the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands, as amended.

(f) The Act of May 21, 1930 (30 U.S.C. 301-306), authorizes the leasing of oil and gas deposits under certain rights-of-way to the owner of the right-of-way or any assignee.

(g)(1)The Act of May 9, 1942 (56 Stat. 273), as amended by the Act of October 25, 1949 (63 Stat. 886), authorizes leasing on certain lands in Nevada.

(2) The Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1487), as amended by the Act of June 5, 1936 (49 Stat. 1482) and the Act of June 29, 1936 (49 Stat. 2026), authorizes leasing on certain lands patented to the State of California.

(3) The Act of June 30, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 508(b)) authorizes leasing on certain National Forest Service Lands in Minnesota.
