
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3102 - Qualifications of Lessees
####### § 3102.5-1 Compliance.
######## entity

(d) Except for an assignment or transfer under subpart 3106 of this title, in compliance with section 2(a)(2)(A) of the Act, in which case the signature on an offer or lease constitutes evidence of compliance. A lease issued to any entity in violation of this paragraph (d) shall be subject to the cancellation provisions of § 3108.3 of this title. The termis defined at § 3400.0-5(rr) of this title.

(e) Not in violation of the provisions of section 41 of the Act; and

(f) In compliance with section 17(g) of the Act, in which case the signature on an offer, lease, assignment, transfer, constitutes evidence of compliance that the signatory and any subsidiary, affiliate, or person, association, or corporation controlled by or under common control with the signatory, as defined in § 3400.0-5(rr) of this title, has not failed or refused to comply with reclamation requirements with respect to all leases and operations thereon in which such person or entity has an interest. Noncompliance with section 17(g) of the Act begins on the effective date of the imposition of a civil penalty by the authorized officer under § 3163.2 of this title, or when the bond is attached by the authorized officer for reclamation purposes, whichever comes first. A lease issued, or an assignment or transfer approved, to any such person or entity in violation of this paragraph (f) shall be subject to the cancellation provisions of § 3108.3 of this title, notwithstanding any administrative or judicial appeals that may be pending with respect to violations or penalties assessed for failure to comply with the prescribed reclamation standards on any lease holdings. Noncompliance shall end upon a determination by the authorized officer that all required reclamation has been completed and that the United States has been fully reimbursed for any costs incurred due to the required reclamation.

(g) In compliance with § 3106.1(b) of this title and section 30A of the Act. The authorized officer may accept the signature on a request for approval of an assignment of less than 640 acres outside of Alaska (2,560 acres within Alaska) as acceptable certification that the assignment would further the development of oil and gas, or the authorized officer may apply the provisions of § 3102.5-3 of this title.
