
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3103 - Fees, Rentals and Royalty
####### ยง 3103.4-2 Stripper well royalty reductions.
######## Record retention.

(b)For seven years after production on which the operator claims a royalty rate reduction for stripper well properties, the operator must retain and make available to BLM for inspection all documents on which the calculation of the applicable royalty rate under this section relies.

(c) Agency action. If a royalty rate is improperly calculated, the MMS will calculate the correct rate and inform the operator/payors. Any additional royalties due are payable immediately upon notification. Late payment or underpayment charges will be assessed in accordance with 30 CFR 218.102. The BLM may terminate a royalty rate reduction if it is determined that the production rate was manipulated by the operator for the purpose of receiving a royalty rate reduction. Terminations of royalty rate reductions will be effective on the effective date of the royalty rate reduction resulting from the manipulated production rate (i.e., the termination will be retroactive to the effective date of the improper reduction). The operator/payor shall pay the difference in royalty resulting from the retroactive application of the unmanipulated rate. Late payment or underpayment charges will be assessed in accordance with 30 CFR 218.102.
