
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3106 - Transfers by Assignment, Sublease or Otherwise
####### ยง 3106.1 Transfers, general.

(a) Leases may be transferred by assignment or sublease as to all or part of the acreage in the lease or as to either a divided or undivided interest therein. An assignment of a separate zone or deposit, or of part of a legal subdivision, shall be disapproved.

(b) An assignment of less than 640 acres outside Alaska or of less than 2,560 acres within Alaska shall be disapproved unless the assignment constitutes the entire lease or is demonstrated to further the development of oil and gas to the satisfaction of the authorized officer. Execution and submission of a request for approval of such an assignment shall certify that the assignment would further the development of oil and gas, subject to the provisions of ยง 3102.5-3 of this title. The rights of the transferee to a lease or an interest therein shall not be recognized by the Department until the transfer has been approved by the authorized officer. A transfer may be withdrawn in writing, signed by the transferor and the transferee, if the transfer has not been approved by the authorized officer. A request for approval of a transfer of a lease or interest in a lease shall be filed within 90 days from the date of its execution. The 90-day filing period shall begin on the date the transferor signs and dates the transfer. If the transfer is filed after the 90th day, the authorized officer may require verification that the transfer is still in force and effect. A transfer of production payments or overriding royalty or other similar payments, arrangements, or interests shall be filed in the proper BLM office but shall not require approval.

(c) No transfer of an offer to lease or interest in a lease shall be approved prior to the issuance of the lease.
