
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3108 - Relinquishment, Termination, Cancellation
####### ยง 3108.2-1 Automatic termination.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any lease on which there is no well capable of producing oil or gas in paying quantities shall automatically terminate by operation of law (30 U.S.C. 188) if the lessee fails to pay the rental at the designated Service office on or before the anniversary date of such lease. However, if the designated Service office is closed on the anniversary date, a rental payment received on the next day the Service office is open to the public shall be considered as timely made.

(b) If the rental payment due under a lease is paid on or before its anniversary date but the amount of the payment is deficient and the deficiency is nominal as defined in this section, or the amount of payment made was determined in accordance with the rental or acreage figure stated in a bill rendered by the designated Service office, or decision rendered by the authorized officer, and such figure is found to be in error resulting in a deficiency, such lease shall not have automatically terminated unless the lessee fails to pay the deficiency within the period prescribed in the Notice of Deficiency provided for in this section. A deficiency shall be considered nominal if it is not more than $100 or more than 5 percent of the total payment due, whichever is less. The designated Service office shall send a Notice of Deficiency to the lessee. The Notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall allow the lessee 15 days from the date of receipt or until the due date, whichever is later, to submit the full balance due to the designated Service office. If the payment required by the Notice is not paid within the time allowed, the lease shall have terminated by operation of law as of its anniversary date.
