
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3100 - OIL AND GAS LEASING
###### Subpart 3109 - Leasing Under Special Acts
####### ยง 3109.2 Units of the National Park System.

(a) Oil and gas leasing in units of the National Park System shall be governed by 43 CFR Group 3100 and all operations conducted on a lease or permit in such units shall be governed by 43 CFR parts 3160 and 3180.

(b) Any lease or permit respecting minerals in units of the National Park System shall be issued or renewed only with the consent of the Regional Director, National Park Service. Such consent shall only be granted upon a determination by the Regional Director that the activity permitted under the lease or permit will not have significant adverse effect upon the resources or administration of the unit pursuant to the authorizing legislation of the unit. Any lease or permit issued shall be subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Regional Director to protect the surface and significant resources of the unit, to preserve their use for public recreation, and to the condition that site specific approval of any activity on the lease will only be given upon concurrence by the Regional Director. All lease applications received for reclamation withdrawn lands shall also be submitted to the Bureau of Reclamation for review.

(c) The units subject to the regulations in this part are those units of land and water which are shown on the following maps on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Director of the National Park Service and in the Superintendent's Office of each unit. The boundaries of these units may be revised by the Secretary as authorized in the Acts.

(1) Lake Mead National Recreation Area-The map identified as "boundary map, 8360-80013B, revised February 1986.

(2) Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area-The map identified as "Proposed Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area," numbered BOR-WST 1004, dated July 1963.

(3) Ross Lake and Lake Chelan National Recreation Areas-The map identified as "Proposed Management Units, North Cascades, Washington," numbered NP-CAS-7002, dated October 1967.

(4) Glen Canyon National Recreation Area-the map identified as "boundary map, Glen Canyon National Recreation Area," numbered GLC-91,006, dated August 1972.

(d) The following excepted units shall not be open to mineral leasing:
