
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3110 - NONCOMPETITIVE LEASES
###### Subpart 3110 - Noncompetitive Leases
####### § 3110.1 Lands available for noncompetitive offer and lease.
######## Offer.

(a)(1) Effective June 12, 1988, through January 2, 1989, noncompetitive lease offers may be filed only for lands available under § 3110.1(b) of this title. Noncompetitive lease offers filed after December 22, 1987, and prior to June 12, 1988, for lands available for filing under § 3110.1(a) of this title shall receive priority. Such offers shall be exposed to competitive bidding under subpart 3120 of this title and if no bid is received, a noncompetitive lease shall be issued all else being regular. After January 2, 1989, noncompetitive lease offers may be filed on unleased lands, except for:

(i) Those lands which are in the one-year period commencing upon the expiration, termination, relinquishment, or cancellation of the leases containing the lands; and

(ii) Those lands included in a Notice of Competitive Lease Sale or a List of Lands Available for Competitive Nominations. Neither exception is applicable to lands available under § 3110.1(b) of this title.

(2) Noncompetitive lease offers may be made pursuant to an opening order or other notice and shall be subject to all provisions and procedures stated in such order or notice.

(3) No noncompetitive lease may issue for any lands unless and until they have satisfied the requirements of § 3110.1(b) of this title.
