
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3110 - NONCOMPETITIVE LEASES
###### Subpart 3110 - Noncompetitive Leases
####### § 3110.4 Requirements for offer.

(a) An offer to lease shall be made on a current form approved by the Director, or on unofficial copies of that form in current use. For noncompetitive leases processed under § 3108.2-4 of this title, the current lease form shall be used. Copies shall be exact reproductions on 1 page of both sides of the official approved form, without additions, omissions, or other changes, or advertising. The original copy of each offer must be typed or printed plainly in ink, signed in ink and dated by the offeror or an authorized agent, and must include payment of the first year's rental and the processing fee for noncompetitive lease applications found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter. The original and 2 copies of each offer to lease, with each copy showing that the original has been signed, shall be filed in the proper BLM office. A noncompetitive offer to lease a future interest applied for under § 3110.9 must include the processing fee for noncompetitive lease applications found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter. Where remittances for offers are returned for insufficient funds, the offer shall not obtain priority of filing until the date the remittance is properly made.

(b) Where a correction to an offer is made, whether at the option of the offeror or at the request of the authorized officer, it shall gain priority as of the date the filing is correct and complete. The priority that existed before the date the corrected offer is filed, may be defeated by an intervening offer to the extent of any conflict in such offers, except as provided under §§ 3103.2-1(a) and 3110.3-3(c) of this title.

(c) An offer shall be limited to either public domain minerals or acquired lands minerals, subject to the provisions for corrections under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Compliance with subpart 3102 shall be required.

(e) All offers for leases should name the United States agency from which consent to the issuance of a lease shall be obtained, or the agency that may have title records covering the ownership for the mineral interest involved, and identify the project, if any, of which the lands covered by the offer are a part.
