
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3130 - OIL AND GAS LEASING: NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE, ALASKA
###### Subpart 3130 - Oil and Gas Leasing, National Petroleum Reserve, Alaska: General
####### ยง 3130.1 Attorney General review.

(a) Prior to the issuance of any lease, contract or operating agreement under this subpart, the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General of the proposed issuance, the name of the successful bidder, the terms of the proposed lease, contract or operating agreement and any other information the Attorney General may require to conduct an antitrust review of the proposed action. Such other information shall include, but is not limited to, information to be provided the Secretary by the successful bidder or its owners.

(b) In advance of the publication of any notice of sale, the Attorney General shall notify the Secretary of his/her preliminary determination of the information each successful bidder shall be required to submit for antitrust review purposes. The Secretary shall require this information to be promptly submitted by successful bidders, and may provide prospective bidders the opportunity to submit such information in advance of or accompanying their bids. For subsequent notices of sale, the Attorney General's preliminary information requirements shall be as specified for the prior notice unless a change in the requirements is communicated to the Secretary in advance of publication of the new notice of sale. Where a bidder in a prior sale has previously submitted any of the currently required information, a reference to the date of submission and to the serial number of the record in which it is filed, together with a statement of any and all changes in the information since the date of the previous submission, shall be sufficient.

(c) The Secretary shall not issue any lease, contract or operating agreement until:

(1) Thirty days after the Attorney General receives notice from the Secretary of the proposed lease contract or operating agreement, together with any other information required under this section; or

(2) The Attorney General notifies the Secretary that issuance of the proposed lease, contract or operating agreement does not create or maintain a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws, whichever comes first. The Attorney General shall inform the successful bidder, and simultaneously the Secretary, if the information supplied is insufficient, and shall specify what information is required for the Attorney General to complete his/her review. The 30-day period shall stop running on the date of such notification and not resume running until the Attorney General receives the required information.

(d) The Secretary shall not issue the lease, contract for operating agreement to the successful bidder, if, during the 30-day period, the Attorney General notifies the Secretary that such issuance would create or maintain a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws.

(e) If the Attorney General does not reply in writing to the notification provided under paragraph (a) of this section within the 30-day review period, the Secretary may issue the lease, contract or operating agreement without waiting for the advice of the Attorney General.

(f) Information submitted to the Secretary to comply with this section shall be treated by the Secretary and by the Attorney General as confidential and proprietary data if marked confidential by the submitting bidder or other person. Such information shall be submitted to the Secretary in sealed envelopes and shall be transmitted in that form to the Attorney General.

(g) The procedures outlined in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section apply to the proposed assignment or transfer of any lease, contract or operating agreement.
