
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3130 - OIL AND GAS LEASING: NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE, ALASKA
###### Subpart 3135 - Transfers, Extensions, Consolidations, and Suspensions
####### § 3135.1-2 Requirements for filing of transfers.

(a)(1) All instruments of transfer of lease or of an interest therein, including operating rights, subleases and assignments of record-title shall be filed in triplicate for approval. Such instruments shall be filed within 90 days from the date of final execution. The instruments of transfer shall include a statement, over the transferee's own signature, with respect to citizenship and qualifications as required of a bidder under § 3132.4 of this title and shall contain all of the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties thereto. Carried working interests, overriding royalty interests or payments out of production or other interest may be created or transferred without approval.

(2) An application for approval of any instrument that the regulations require you to file must include the processing fee for assignments and transfers found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter. Any document that the regulations in this part do not require you to file, but that you submit for record purposes, must also include the processing fee for assignments and transfers found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter for each lease affected. Such documents may be rejected by the authorized officer.

(b) An attorney-in-fact, on behalf of the holder of a lease, operating rights or sublease, shall furnish evidence of authority to execute the transfer or application for approval and the statement required by § 3132.5(g) of this title.

(c) Where a transfer of record title creates separate leases, a bond shall be furnished covering the transferred lands in the amount prescribed in § 3134.1 of this title. Where a transfer does not create separate leases, the transferee, if the transfer so provides and the surety consents, may become co-principal on the bond with the transferor.
