
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3150 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION
###### Subpart 3152 - Exploration in Alaska
####### ยง 3152.2 Action on application.
######## et seq.

(a) The authorized officer shall review each application and approve or disapprove it within 90 calendar days, unless compliance with statutory requirements such as the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321) delays this action. The applicant shall be notified promptly in writing of any such delay.

(b) The authorized officer shall include in each geophysical exploration permit terms and conditions deemed necessary to protect values, mineral resources, and nonmineral resources. Geophysical permits within National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska shall contain such reasonable conditions, restrictions and prohibitions as the authorized officer deems appropriate to mitigate adverse effects upon the surface resources of the Reserve and to satisfy the requirement of section 104(b) of the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6504) (See part 3130 for stipulations relating to the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska).

(c) An exploration permit shall become effective on the date specified by the authorized officer and shall expire 1 year thereafter.

(d) For lands subject to section 1008 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, exploration shall be authorized only upon a determination that such activities can be conducted in a manner which is consistent with the purposes for which the affected area is managed under applicable law.
