
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3160 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3162 - Requirements for Operating Rights Owners and Operators
####### ยง 3162.6 Well and facility identification.

(a) Every well within a Federal or Indian lease or supervised agreement shall have a well identification sign. All signs shall be maintained in a legible condition.

(b) For wells located on Federal and Indian lands, the operator must properly identify, by a sign in a conspicuous place, each well, other than those permanently abandoned. The well sign must include the well number, the name of the operator, the lease serial number, and the surveyed location (the quarter-quarter section, section, township and range or other authorized survey designation acceptable to the authorized officer, such as metes and bounds or longitude and latitude). When specifically requested by the authorized officer, the sign must include the unit or communitization agreement name or number. The authorized officer may also require the sign to include the name of the Indian allottee lessor(s) preceding the lease serial number.

(c) All facilities at which oil or gas produced from a Federal or Indian lease is stored, measured, or processed must be clearly identified with a sign that contains the name of the operator, the lease serial number or communitization or unit agreement identification number, as appropriate, and the surveyed location (the quarter-quarter section, section, township and range or other authorized survey designation acceptable to the authorized officer, such as metes and bounds or longitude and latitude). On Indian leases, the sign also must include the name of the appropriate tribe and whether the lease is tribal or allotted. For situations of one tank battery servicing one well in the same location, the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (b) of this section may be met by one sign as long as it includes the information required by both paragraphs. In addition, each storage tank must be clearly identified by a unique number. With regard to the quarter-quarter designation and the unique tank number, any such designation established by State law or regulation satisfies this requirement.

(d) All signs must be maintained in legible condition and must be clearly apparent to any person at or approaching the storage, measurement, or transportation point.

(e) All abandoned wells shall be marked with a permanent monument containing the information in paragraph (b) of this section. The requirement for a permanent monument may be waived in writing by the authorized officer.
