
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3160 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3162 - Requirements for Operating Rights Owners and Operators
####### ยง 3162.7-1 Disposition of production.

(a) The operator shall put into marketable condition, if economically feasible, all oil, other hydrocarbons, gas, and sulphur produced from the leased land.

(b) Where oil accumulates in a pit, such oil must either be (1) recirculated through the regular treating system and returned to the stock tanks for sale, or (2) pumped into a stock tank without treatment and measured for sale in the same manner as from any sales tank in accordance with applicable orders and notices. In the absence of prior approval from the authorized officer, no oil should go to a pit except in an emergency. Each such occurrence must be reported to the authorized officer and the oil promptly recovered in accordance with applicable orders and notices.

(c)(1) Any person engaged in transporting by motor vehicle any oil from any lease site, or allocated to any such lease site, shall carry on his/her person, in his/her vehicle, or in his/her immediate control, documentation showing at a minimum; the amount, origin, and intended first purchaser of the oil.

(2) Any person engaged in transporting any oil or gas by pipeline from any lease site, or allocated to any lease site, shall maintain documentation showing, at a minimum, the amount, origin, and intended first purchaser of such oil or gas.

(3) On any lease site, any authorized representative who is properly identified may stop and inspect any motor vehicle that he/she has probable cause to believe is carrying oil from any such lease site, or allocated to such lease site, to determine whether the driver possesses proper documentation for the load of oil.

(4) Any authorized representative who is properly identified and who is accompanied by an appropriate law enforcement officer, or an appropriate law enforcement officer alone, may stop and inspect any motor vehicle which is not on a lease site if he/she has probable cause to believe the vehicle is carrying oil from a lease site, or allocated to a lease site, to determine whether the driver possesses proper documentation for the load of oil.

(d) The operator shall conduct operations in such a manner as to prevent avoidable loss of oil and gas. A operator shall be liable for royalty payments on oil or gas lost or wasted from a lease site, or allocated to a lease site, when such loss or waste is due to negligence on the part of the operator of such lease, or due to the failure of the operator to comply with any regulation, order or citation issued pursuant to this part.

(e) When requested by the authorized officer, the operator shall furnish storage for royalty oil, on the leasehold or at a mutually agreed upon delivery point off the leased land without cost to the lessor, for 30 days following the end of the calendar month in which the royalty accrued.
