
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3160 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3165 - Relief, Conflicts, and Appeals
####### ยง 3165.3 Notice, State Director review and hearing on the record.
######## Notice.

(a)(1) Whenever any person fails to comply with any provisions of the lease, the regulations in this part, applicable orders or notices, or any other appropriate order of the authorized officer, the authorized officer will issue a written notice or order to the appropriate party and the lessee(s) to remedy any defaults or violations.

(2) Whenever any purchaser or transporter, who is not an operating rights owner or operator, fails or refuses to comply with 30 U.S.C. 1713 or applicable rules or regulations regarding records relevant to determining the quality, quantity, and disposition of oil or gas produced from or allocable to a Federal or Indian oil and gas lease, applicable orders or notices, or any other appropriate orders of the authorized officer, the authorized officer will give written notice or order to the purchaser or transporter to remedy any violations.

(3) Written orders or a notice of violation, assessment, or proposed penalty will be issued and served by personal service by the authorized officer, or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Service will be deemed to occur when the document is received or 7 business days after the date it is mailed, whichever is earlier.

(4) Any person may designate a representative to receive any notice of violation, order, assessment, or proposed penalty on that person's behalf.

(5) In the case of a major violation, the authorized officer will make a good faith effort to contact such designated representative by telephone, to be followed by a written notice or order. Receipt of a notice or order will be deemed to occur at the time of such verbal communication, and the time of notice and the name of the receiving party will be documented in the file. If the good faith effort to contact the designated representative is unsuccessful, notice of the major violation or order may be given to any person conducting or supervising operations subject to the regulations in this part.

(6) In the case of a minor violation, the authorized officer will only provide a written notice or order to the designated representative.

(7) A copy of all orders, notices, or instructions served on any contractor or field employee or designated representative will also be mailed to the operator. Any notice involving a civil penalty against an operator will be mailed to the operator, with a copy to the operating rights owner.
