
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3160 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3165 - Relief, Conflicts, and Appeals
####### ยง 3165.3 Notice, State Director review and hearing on the record.
######## Review of proposed penalties.

(c)Any adversely affected party wishing to contest a notice of proposed penalty shall request an administrative review before the State Director under the procedures set out in paragraph (b) of this section. However, no civil penalty shall be assessed under this part until the party charged with the violation has been given the opportunity for a hearing on the record in accordance with section 109(e) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act. Therefore, any party adversely affected by the State Director's decision on the proposed penalty, may request a hearing on the record before an Administrative Law Judge or, in lieu of a hearing, may appeal that decision directly to the Interior Board of Land Appeals as provided in ยง 3165.4(b)(2) of this part. If such party elects to request a hearing on the record, such request shall be filed in the office of the State Director having jurisdiction over the lands covered by the lease within 30 days of receipt of the State Director's decision on the notice of proposed penalty. Where a hearing on the record is requested, the State Director shall refer the complete case file to the Office of Hearings and Appeals for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge in accordance with part 4 of this title. A decision shall be issued following completion of the hearing and shall be served on the parties. Any party, including the United States, adversely affected by the decision of the Administrative Law Judge may appeal to the Interior Board of Land Appeals as provided in ยง 3163.4 of this title.
