
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3160 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3165 - Relief, Conflicts, and Appeals
####### ยง 3165.4 Appeals.
######## Effect of appeal on assessments and penalties.

(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, an appeal filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall suspend the accumulation of additional daily assessments. However, the pendency of an appeal shall not bar the authorized officer from assessing civil penalties under ยง 3163.2 of this title in the event the operator has failed to abate the violation which resulted in the assessment. The Board of Land Appeals may issue appropriate orders to coordinate the pending appeal and the pending civil penalty proceeding.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, an appeal filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall suspend the accumulation of additional daily civil penalties.

(3) When an appeal is filed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the State Director may, within 10 days of receipt of the notice of appeal, recommend that the Director reinstate the accumulation of assessments and daily civil penalties until such time as a final decision is rendered or until the violation is abated. The Director may, if he/she determines that the public interest requires it, reinstate such accumulation(s) upon a finding that the violation is causing or threatening immediate substantial and adverse impacts on public health and safety, the environment, production accountability, or royalty income. If the Director does not act on the recommendation to reinstate the accumulation(s) within 45 days of the filing of the notice of appeal, the suspension shall continue.

(4) When an appeal is filed under paragraph (a) of this section from a decision to require drainage protection, BLM's drainage determination will remain in effect during the appeal, notwithstanding the provisions of 43 CFR 4.21. Compensatory royalty and interest determined under 30 CFR Part 218 will continue to accrue throughout the appeal.
