
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Special Rules Applicable to Appeals Concerning Federal Oil and Gas Royalties and Related Matters
##### ยง 4.906 What if the Department does not issue a decision by the date my appeal ends?

(a) If the IBLA or an Assistant Secretary (or the Secretary or the Director of OHA) does not issue a final decision by the date an appeal ends under ยง 4.904(d), then under 30 U.S.C. 1724(h)(2), the Secretary will be deemed to have decided the appeal:

(1) In favor of the appellant for any nonmonetary obligation at issue in the appeal, or any monetary obligation at issue in the appeal with a principal amount of less than $10,000;

(2) In favor of the Secretary for any monetary obligation at issue in the appeal with a principal amount of $10,000 or more.

(b)(1) If your appeal ends before the ONRR Director issues a decision in your appeal, then the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to the monetary and nonmonetary obligations in the order that you contested in your appeal to the Director.

(2) If the ONRR Director issues a decision in your appeal before your appeal ends, and if you appealed the Director's decision to IBLA under 43 CFR part 4, subpart E, then the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to the monetary and nonmonetary obligations in the Director's decision that you contested in your appeal to IBLA.

(3) If the ONRR Director issues an order or a decision in your appeal, and if you do not appeal the Director's order or decision to IBLA within the time required under 30 CFR part 1290, then the ONRR Director's order or decision is the final decision of the Department and 30 U.S.C. 1724(h)(2) has no application.

(c) If the IBLA issues a decision before the date your appeal ends, that decision is the final decision of the Department and 30 U.S.C. 1724(h)(2) has no application. A petition for reconsideration does not extend or renew the 33-month period.

(d) If any part of the principal amount of any monetary obligation is not specifically stated in an order or ONRR Director's decision and must be computed to comply with the order or ONRR Director's decision, then the principal amount referred to in paragraph (a) of this section means the principal amount ONRR estimates you would be required to pay as a result of the computation required under the order, plus any amount due stated in the order.
