
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3173 - Requirements for Site Security and Production Handling
####### ยง 3173.2 Storage and sales facilities - seals.

(a) All lines entering or leaving any oil storage tank must have valves capable of being effectively sealed during the production and sales phases unless otherwise provided under this subpart. During the production phase, all appropriate valves that allow unmeasured production to be removed from storage must be effectively sealed in the closed position. During any other phase (sales, water drain, or hot oiling), and prior to taking the top tank gauge measurement, all appropriate valves that allow unmeasured production to enter or leave the sales tank must be effectively sealed in the closed position (see Appendix A to subpart 3173). Each unsealed or ineffectively sealed appropriate valve is a separate violation.

(b) Valves or combinations of valves and tanks that provide access to the production before it is measured for sales are considered appropriate valves and are subject to the seal requirements of this subpart (see Appendix A to subpart 3173). If there is more than one valve on a line from a tank, the valve closest to the tank must be sealed. All appropriate valves must be in an operable condition and accurately reflect whether the valve is open or closed.

(c) The following are not considered appropriate valves and are not subject to the sealing requirements of this subpart:
