
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3173 - Requirements for Site Security and Production Handling
####### § 3173.16 Existing commingling and allocation approvals.

Upon receipt of an operator's request for assignment of an FMP number to a facility associated with a CAA existing on January 17, 2017, the AO will review the existing CAA and take the following action:

(a) The AO will grandfather the existing CAA and associated off-lease measurement, where applicable, if the existing CAA meets one of the following conditions:

(1) The existing CAA involves downhole commingling that includes Federal or Indian leases, unit PAs, or CAs; or

(2) The existing CAA is for surface commingling and the average production rate over the previous 12 months for each Federal or Indian lease, unit PA, and CA included in the CAA is:

(i) Less than 1,000 Mcf per month for gas; or

(ii) Less than 100 bbl per month for oil.

(b) If the existing CAA does not meet the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the AO will review the CAA for consistency with the minimum standards and requirements for a CAA under § 3173.14.

(1) The AO will notify the operator in writing of any inconsistencies or deficiencies with an existing CAA. The operator must correct any inconsistencies or deficiencies that the AO identifies, provide the additional information that the AO has requested, or request an extension of time from the AO, within 20 business days after receipt of the AO's notice. When the AO is satisfied that the operator has corrected any inconsistencies or deficiencies, the AO will terminate the existing CAA and grant a new CAA based on the operator's corrections.

(2) The AO may terminate the existing CAA and grant a new CAA with new or amended COAs to make the approval consistent with the requirements under § 3173.14 in connection with approving the requested FMP. If the operator appeals any COAs of the new CAA, the existing CAA approval will continue in effect during the pendency of the appeal.

(3) If the existing CAA does not meet the standards and requirements of § 3173.14 and the operator does not correct the deficiencies, the AO may terminate the existing CAA under § 3173.20 and deny the request for an FMP number for the facility associated with the existing CAA.

(c) If the AO grants a new CAA to replace an existing CAA under paragraph (b) of this section, the new CAA is effective on the first day of the month following its approval. Any new allocation percentages resulting from the new CAA will apply from the effective date of the CAA forward.
