
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3173 - Requirements for Site Security and Production Handling
####### § 3173.25 Existing approved off-lease measurement.

(a) Upon receipt of an operator's request for assignment of an FMP number to a facility associated with an off-lease measurement approval existing on January 17, 2017, the AO will review the existing approved off-lease measurement for consistency with the minimum standards and requirements for an off-lease measurement approval under § 3173.22. The AO will notify the operator in writing of any inconsistencies or deficiencies.

(b) The operator must correct any inconsistencies or deficiencies that the AO identifies, provide any additional information the AO requests, or request an extension of time from the AO, within 20 business days after receipt of the AO's notice. The extension request must explain the factors that will prevent the operator from complying within 20 days and provide a timeframe under which the operator can comply.

(c) The AO may terminate the existing off-lease measurement approval and grant a new off-lease measurement approval with new or amended COAs to make the approval consistent with the requirements for off-lease measurement under § 3173.22 in connection with approving the requested FMP. If the operator appeals the new off-lease measurement approval, the existing off-lease measurement approval will continue in effect during the pendency of the appeal.

(d) If the existing off-lease measurement approval does not meet the standards and requirements of § 3173.22 and the operator does not correct the deficiencies, the AO may terminate the existing off-lease measurement approval under § 3173.27 and deny the request for an FMP number for the facility associated with the existing off-lease measurement approval.

(e) If the existing off-lease measurement approval under this section is consistent with the requirements under § 3173.22, then that existing off-lease measurement is grandfathered and will be part of its FMP approval.

(f) If the BLM grants a new off-lease measurement approval to replace an existing off-lease measurement approval, the new approval is effective on the first day of the month following its approval.
