
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3174 - Measurement of Oil
####### § 3174.5 Oil measurement by tank gauging - general requirements.
######## Oil tank equipment.

(b)(1) Each tank used for oil storage must comply with the recommended practices listed in API RP 12R1 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(2) Each oil storage tank must be connected, maintained, and operated in compliance with §§ 3173.2, 3173.6, and 3173.7 of this part.

(3) All oil storage tanks, hatches, connections, and other access points must be vapor tight. Unless connected to a vapor recovery or flare system, all tanks must have a pressure-vacuum relief valve installed at the highest point in the vent line or connection with another tank. All hatches, connections, and other access points must be installed and maintained in accordance with manufacturers' specifications.

(4) All oil storage tanks must be clearly identified and have an operator-generated number unique to the lease, unit PA, or CA, stenciled on the tank and maintained in a legible condition.

(5) Each oil storage tank associated with an approved FMP that has a tank-gauging system must be set and maintained level.

(6) Each oil storage tank associated with an approved FMP that has a tank-gauging system must be equipped with a distinct gauging reference point, consistent with API 3.1A (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). The height of the reference point must be stamped on a fixed bench-mark plate or stenciled on the tank near the gauging hatch, and be maintained in a legible condition.
