
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3174 - Measurement of Oil
####### § 3174.9 Coriolis measurement systems (CMS) - general requirements and components.
######## www.blm.gov

(b) The specific makes, models, and sizes of Coriolis meters and associated software that have been reviewed by the PMT, as provided in § 3174.13, approved by the BLM, and identified and described atare approved for use.

(c) A CMS system must be proven at the frequency and under the requirements of § 3174.11 of this subpart.

(d) Measurement tickets must be completed under § 3174.12(b) of this subpart.

(e) A CMS at an FMP must be installed with the components listed in API 5.6 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). Additional requirements are as follows:

(1) The pressure transducer must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(5) of this subpart.

(2) Temperature determination must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(6) of this subpart.

(3) If nonzero S&W content is to be used in determining net oil volume, the sampling system must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart. If no sampling system is used, or the sampling system does not meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart, the S&W content must be reported as zero;

(4) Sufficient back pressure must be applied to ensure single phase flow through the meter.
