
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3174 - Measurement of Oil
####### ยง 3174.10 Coriolis meter for LACT and CMS measurement applications - operating requirements.
######## Required on-site information.

(e)(1) The Coriolis meter display must be readable without using data collection units, laptop computers, or any special equipment, and must be on-site and accessible to the AO.

(2) For each Coriolis meter, the following values and corresponding units of measurement must be displayed:

(i) The instantaneous density of liquid (pounds/bbl, pounds/gal, or degrees API);

(ii) The instantaneous indicated volumetric flow rate through the meter (bbl/day);

(iii) The meter factor;

(iv) The instantaneous pressure (psi);

(v) The instantaneous temperature ( &#xB0;F);

(vi) The cumulative gross standard volume through the meter (non-resettable totalizer) (bbl); and

(vii) The previous day's gross standard volume through the meter (bbl).

(3) The following information must be correct, be maintained in a legible condition, and be accessible to the AO at the FMP without the use of data collection equipment, laptop computers, or any special equipment:

(i) The make, model, and size of each sensor; and

(ii) The make, range, calibrated span, and model of the pressure and temperature transducer used to determine gross standard volume.

(4) A log must be maintained of all meter factors, zero verifications, and zero adjustments. For zero adjustments, the log must include the zero value before adjustment and the zero value after adjustment. The log must be made available upon request.
