
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3174 - Measurement of Oil
####### § 3174.11 Meter-proving requirements.
######## Meter prover.

(b)Acceptable provers are positive displacement master meters, Coriolis master meters, and displacement provers. The operator must ensure that the meter prover used to determine the meter factor has a valid certificate of calibration on site and available for review by the AO. The certificate must show that the prover, identified by serial number assigned to and inscribed on the prover, was calibrated as follows:

(1) Master meters must have a meter factor within 0.9900 to 1.0100 determined by a minimum of five consecutive prover runs within 0.0005 (0.05 percent repeatability) as described in API 4.5, Subsection 6.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). The master meter must not be mechanically compensated for oil gravity or temperature; its readout must indicate units of volume without corrections. The meter factor must be documented on the calibration certificate and must be calibrated at least once every 12 months. New master meters must be calibrated immediately and recalibrated in three months. Master meters that have undergone mechanical repairs, alterations, or changes that affect the calibration must be calibrated immediately upon completion of this work and calibrated again 3 months after this date under API 4.5, API 4.8, Subsection 10.2, and API 4.8, Annex B (all incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(2) Displacement provers must meet the requirements of API 4.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3) and be calibrated using the water-draw method under API 4.9.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3), at the calibration frequencies specified in API 4.8, Subsection 10.1(b) (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(3) The base prover volume of a displacement prover must be calculated under API 12.2.4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(4) Displacement provers must be sized to obtain a displacer velocity through the prover that is within the appropriate range during proving under API 4.2, Subsection 4.3.4.2, Minimum Displacer Velocities and API 4.2, Subsection 4.3.4.1, Maximum Displacer Velocities (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(5) Fluid velocity is calculated using API 4.2, Subsection 4.3.4.3, Equation 12 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).
