
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3174 - Measurement of Oil
####### § 3174.11 Meter-proving requirements.
######## Meter proving runs.

(c)Meter proving must follow the applicable section(s) of API 4.1, Proving Systems (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(1) Meter proving must be performed under normal operating fluid pressure, fluid temperature, and fluid type and composition, as follows:

(i) The oil flow rate through the LACT or CMS during proving must be within 10 percent of the normal flow rate;

(ii) The absolute pressure as measured by the LACT or CMS during proving must be within 10 percent of the normal operating absolute pressure;

(iii) The temperature as measured by the LACT or CMS during the proving must be within 10 &#xB0;F of the normal operating temperature; and

(iv) The gravity of the oil during proving must be within 5&#xB0; API of the normal oil gravity.

(v) If the normal flow rate, pressure, temperature, or oil gravity vary by more than the limits defined in paragraphs (c)(i) through (c)(iv) of this section, meter provings must be conducted, at a minimum, under the three following conditions: At the lower limit of normal operating conditions, at the upper limit of normal operation conditions, and at the midpoint of normal operating conditions.

(2) If each proving run is not of sufficient volume to generate at least 10,000 pulses, as specified by API 4.2, Subsection 4.3.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3), from the positive displacement meter or the Coriolis meter, then pulse interpolation must be used in accordance with API 4.6 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(3) Proving runs must be made until the calculated meter factor or meter generated pulses from five consecutive runs match within a tolerance of 0.0005 (0.05 percent) between the highest and the lowest value in accordance with API 12.2.3, Subsection 9 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(4) The new meter factor is the arithmetic average of the meter generated pulses or intermediate meter factors calculated from the five consecutive runs in accordance with API 12.2.3, Subsection 9 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(5) Meter factor computations must follow the sequence described in API 12.2.3 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).

(6) If multiple meters factors are determined over a range of normal operating conditions, then:

(i) If all the meter factors determined over a range of conditions fall within 0.0020 of each other, then a single meter factor may be calculated for that range as the arithmetic average of all the meter factors within that range. The full range of normal operating conditions may be divided into segments such that all the meter factors within each segment fall within a range of 0.0020. In this case, a single meter factor for each segment may be calculated as the arithmetic average of the meter factors within that segment; or
