
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.30 Incorporation by reference.
######## http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Certain material identified in this section is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Operators must comply with all incorporated standards and material as they are listed in this section. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the BLM must publish a rule in theand the material must be reasonably available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Bureau of Land Management, Division of Fluid Minerals, 20 M Street SE., Washington, DC 20003, 202-912-7162; and at all BLM offices with jurisdiction over oil and gas activities; and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to

(b) American Gas Association (AGA), 400 North Capitol Street NW., Suite 450, Washington, DC 20001; telephone 202-824-7000.

(1) AGA Report No. 3, Orifice Metering of Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids, Second Edition, September, 1985 ("AGA Report No. 3 (1985)"), IBR approved for §§ 3175.61(a) and (b), 3175.80(k), and 3175.94(a).

(2) AGA Transmission Measurement Committee Report No. 8, Compressibility Factors of Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Gases; Second Edition, November 1992 ("AGA Report No. 8"), IBR approved for §§ 3175.103(a) and 3175.120(d).
