
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.60 Timeframes for compliance.
######## Existing FMPs.

(b)(1) Except as allowed in § 3175.61, measuring procedures and equipment at any FMP in place before January 17, 2017 must comply with the requirements of this subpart within the timeframes specified in this paragraph (b).

(2) High- and very-high-volume FMPs must comply with:

(i) All of the requirements of this subpart except as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section by January 17, 2018;

(ii) The gas analysis reporting requirements of § 3175.120(e) and (f) starting on January 17, 2019; and

(iii) Equipment approvals required in §§ 3175.43, 3175.44, and 3175.46 through 3175.49 starting on January 17, 2019.

(3) Low-volume FMPs must comply with all of the requirements of this subpart by January 17, 2019.

(4) Very-low-volume FMPs must comply with all of the requirements of this subpart by January 17, 2020.

(c) During the phase-in timeframes in paragraph (b) of this section, measuring procedures and equipment in place before January 17, 2017 must comply with the requirements in place prior to the issuance of this rule, including Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 5, Measurement of Gas, and applicable NTLs, COAs, and written orders.

(d) Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 5, Measurement of Gas, statewide NTLs, variance approvals, and written orders that establish requirements or standards related to gas measurement and that are in effect on January 17, 2017 are rescinded as of:

(1) January 17, 2018 for high-volume and very-high-volume FMPs;

(2) January 17, 2019 for low-volume FMPs; and

(3) January 17, 2020 for very-low-volume FMPs.
