
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.80 Flange-tapped orifice plates (primary devices).

Except as stated in this section, as prescribed in Table 1 to this section, or grandfathered under § 3175.61, the standards and requirements in this section apply to all flange-tapped orifice plates (Note: The following table lists the standards in this subpart and the API standards that the operator must follow to install and maintain flange-tapped orifice plates. A requirement applies when a column is marked with an "x" or a number.).

(a) The Beta ratio must be no less than 0.10 and no greater than 0.75.

(b) The orifice bore diameter must be no less than 0.45 inches.

(c) For FMPs measuring production from wells first coming into production, or from existing wells that have been re-fractured (including FMPs already measuring production from one or more other wells), the operator must inspect the orifice plate upon installation and then every 2 weeks thereafter. If the inspection shows that the orifice plate does not comply with API 14.3.2, Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), the operator must replace the orifice plate. When the inspection shows that the orifice plate complies with API 14.3.2, Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), the operator thereafter must inspect the orifice plate as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) The operator must pull and inspect the orifice plate at the frequency (in months) identified in Table 1 to this section. The operator must replace orifice plates that do not comply with API 14.3.2, Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), with an orifice plate that does comply with these standards.

(e) The operator must retain documentation for every plate inspection and must include that documentation as part of the verification report (see § 3175.92(d) for mechanical recorders, or § 3175.102(e) for EGM systems). The operator must provide that documentation to the BLM upon request. The documentation must include:

(1) The information required in § 3170.7(g) of this part;

(2) Plate orientation (bevel upstream or downstream);

(3) Measured orifice bore diameter;

(4) Plate condition (compliance with API 14.3.2, Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30));

(5) The presence of oil, grease, paraffin, scale, or other contaminants on the plate;

(6) Time and date of inspection; and

(7) Whether or not the plate was replaced.

(f) Meter tubes must meet the requirements of API 14.3.2, Subsections 5.1 through 5.4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).

(g) If flow conditioners are used, they must be either isolating-flow conditioners approved by the BLM and installed under BLM requirements (see § 3175.46) or 19-tube-bundle flow straighteners constructed in compliance with API 14.3.2, Subsections 5.5.2 through 5.5.4, and located in compliance with API 14.3.2, Subsection 6.3 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).
