
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.80 Flange-tapped orifice plates (primary devices).
######## Detailed meter tube inspection.

(i)(1) Within 30 days of a basic inspection that indicates the presence of pitting, obstructions, or a buildup of foreign substances, the operator must:

(i) For low-volume FMPs, clean the meter tube of obstructions and foreign substances;

(ii) For high- and very-high-volume FMPs, physically measure and inspect the meter tube to determine if the meter tube complies with API 14.3.2, Subsections 5.1 through 5.4 and API 14.3.2, Subsection 6.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), or the requirements under § 3175.61(a), if the meter tube is grandfathered under § 3175.61(a). If the meter tube does not comply with the applicable standards, the operator must repair the meter tube to bring the meter tube into compliance with these standards or replace the meter tube with one that meets these standards; or

(iii) Submit a request to the AO for an extension of the 30-day timeframe, justifying the need for the extension.

(2) For all high- and very-high volume FMPs installed after January 17, 2017, the operator must perform a detailed inspection under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section before operation of the meter. The operator may submit documentation showing that the meter tube complies with API 14.3.2, Subsections 5.1 through 5.4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30) in lieu of performing a detailed inspection.

(3) The operator must notify the AO at least 24 hours before performing a detailed inspection.

(j) The operator must retain documentation of all detailed meter tube inspections, demonstrating that the meter tube complies with API 14.3.2, Subsections 5.1 through 5.4 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), and showing all required measurements. The operator must provide such documentation to the BLM upon request for every meter-tube inspection. Documentation must also include the information required in § 3170.7(g) of this part.
