
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.80 Flange-tapped orifice plates (primary devices).
######## Thermometer wells.

(l)(1) Thermometer wells used for determining the flowing temperature of the gas as well as thermometer wells used for verification (test well) must be located in compliance with API 14.3.2, Subsection 6.5 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3175.30).

(2) Thermometer wells must be located in such a way that they can sense the same flowing gas temperature that exists at the orifice plate. The operator may accomplish this by physically locating the thermometer well(s) in the same ambient temperature conditions as the primary device (such as in a heated meter house) or by installing insulation and/or heat tracing along the entire meter run. If the operator chooses to use insulation to comply with this requirement, the AO may prescribe the quality of the insulation based on site specific factors such as ambient temperature, flowing temperature of the gas, composition of the gas, and location of the thermometer well in relation to the orifice plate (i.e., inside or outside of a meter house).

(3) Where multiple thermometer wells have been installed in a meter tube, the flowing temperature must be measured from the thermometer well closest to the primary device.

(4) Thermometer wells used to measure or verify flowing temperature must contain a thermally conductive liquid.

(m) The sampling probe must be located as specified in ยง 3175.112(b).
