
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.92 Verification and calibration of mechanical recorders.
######## Verification after installation or following repair.

(a)(1) Before performing any verification of a mechanical recorder required in this part, the operator must perform a leak test. The verification must not proceed if leaks are present. The leak test must be conducted in a manner that will detect leaks in the following:

(i) All connections and fittings of the secondary device, including meter manifolds and verification equipment;

(ii) The isolation valves; and

(iii) The equalizer valves.

(2) The operator must adjust the time lag between the differential- and static-pressure pens, if necessary, to be 1/96 of the chart rotation period, measured at the chart hub. For example, the time lag is 15 minutes on a 24-hour test chart and 2 hours on an 8-day test chart.

(3) The meter's differential pen arc must be able to duplicate the test chart's time arc over the full range of the test chart, and must be adjusted, if necessary.

(4) The as-left values must be verified in the following sequence against a certified pressure device for the differential-pressure and static-pressure elements (if the static-pressure pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static-pressure element range is in psia):

(i) Zero (vented to atmosphere);

(ii) 50 percent of element range;

(iii) 100 percent of element range;

(iv) 80 percent of element range;

(v) 20 percent of element range; and

(vi) Zero (vented to atmosphere).

(5) The following as-left temperatures must be verified by placing the temperature probe in a water bath with a certified test thermometer:

(i) Approximately 10 &#xB0;F below the lowest expected flowing temperature;

(ii) Approximately 10 &#xB0;F above the highest expected flowing temperature; and

(iii) At the expected average flowing temperature.

(6) If any of the readings required in paragraph (a)(4) or (5) of this section vary from the test device reading by more than the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section, the operator must replace and verify the element for which readings were outside the applicable tolerances before returning the meter to service.

(7) If the static-pressure pen is offset for atmospheric pressure:

(i) The atmospheric pressure must be calculated under appendix A to this subpart; and

(ii) The pen must be offset prior to obtaining the as-left verification values required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
