
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.92 Verification and calibration of mechanical recorders.
######## Routine verification procedures.

(c)(1) Before performing any verification required in this part, the operator must perform a leak test in the manner required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) No adjustments to the pens or linkages may be made until an as-found verification is obtained. If the static pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static pen must not be reset to zero until the as-found verification is obtained.

(3) The operator must obtain the as-found values of differential and static pressure against a certified pressure device at the readings listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, with the following additional requirements:

(i) If there is sufficient data on site to determine the point at which the differential and static pens normally operate, the operator must also obtain an as-found value at those points;

(ii) If there is not sufficient data on site to determine the points at which the differential and static pens normally operate, the operator must also obtain as-found values at 5 percent of the element range and 10 percent of the element range; and

(iii) If the static-pressure pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static-pressure element range is in units of psia.

(4) The as-found value for temperature must be taken using a certified test thermometer placed in a test thermometer well if there is flow through the meter and the meter tube is equipped with a test thermometer well. If there is no flow through the meter or if the meter is not equipped with a test thermometer well, the temperature probe must be verified by placing it along with a test thermometer in an insulated water bath.

(5) The element undergoing verification must be calibrated according to manufacturer specifications if any of the as-found values determined under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section are not within the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section, when compared to the values applied by the test equipment.

(6) The operator must adjust the time lag between the differential- and static-pressure pens, if necessary, to be 1/96 of the chart rotation period, measured at the chart hub. For example, the time lag is 15 minutes on a 24-hour test chart and 2 hours on an 8-day test chart.

(7) The meter's differential pen arc must be able to duplicate the test chart's time arc over the full range of the test chart, and must be adjusted, if necessary.

(8) If any adjustment to the meter was made, the operator must perform an as-left verification on each element adjusted using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section.

(9) If, after an as-left verification, any of the readings required in paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section vary by more than the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section when compared with the test-device reading, any element which has readings that are outside of the applicable tolerances must be replaced and verified under this section before the operator returns the meter to service.

(10) If the static-pressure pen is offset for atmospheric pressure:

(i) The atmospheric pressure must be calculated under appendix A to this subpart; and

(ii) The pen must be offset prior to obtaining the as-left verification values required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(d) The operator must retain documentation of each verification, as required under ยง 3170.7(g) of this part, and submit it to the BLM upon request. This documentation must include:

(1) The time and date of the verification and the prior verification date;

(2) Primary-device data (meter-tube inside diameter and differential-device size and Beta or area ratio) if the orifice plate is pulled and inspected;

(3) The type and location of taps (flange or pipe, upstream or downstream static tap);

(4) Atmospheric pressure used to offset the static-pressure pen, if applicable;

(5) Mechanical recorder data (make, model, and differential pressure, static pressure, and temperature element ranges);

(6) The normal operating points for differential pressure, static pressure, and flowing temperature;

(7) Verification points (as-found and applied) for each element;

(8) Verification points (as-left and applied) for each element, if a calibration was performed;

(9) Names, contact information, and affiliations of the person performing the verification and any witness, if applicable; and

(10) Remarks, if any.
