
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.92 Verification and calibration of mechanical recorders.
######## Notification of verification.

(e)(1) For verifications performed after installation or following repair, the operator must notify the AO at least 72 hours before conducting the verifications.

(2) For routine verifications, the operator must notify the AO at least 72 hours before conducting the verification or submit a monthly or quarterly verification schedule to the AO in advance.

(f) If, during the verification, the combined errors in as-found differential pressure, static pressure, and flowing temperature taken at the normal operating points tested result in a flow-rate error greater than 2 percent or 2 Mcf/day, whichever is greater, the volumes reported on the OGOR and on royalty reports submitted to ONRR must be corrected beginning with the date that the inaccuracy occurred. If that date is unknown, the volumes must be corrected beginning with the production month that includes the date that is half way between the date of the last verification and the date of the current verification. For example: Meter verification determined that the meter was reading 4 Mcf/day high at the normal operating points. The average flow rate measured by the meter is 90 Mcf/day. There is no indication of when the inaccuracy occurred. The date of the current verification was December 15, 2015. The previous verification was conducted on June 15, 2015. The royalty volumes reported on OGOR B that were based on this meter must be corrected for the 4 Mcf/day error back to September 15, 2015.

(g) Test equipment used to verify or calibrate elements at an FMP must be certified at least every 2 years. Documentation of the recertification must be on-site during all verifications and must show:

(1) Test equipment serial number, make, and model;

(2) The date on which the recertification took place;

(3) The test equipment measurement range; and

(4) The uncertainty determined or verified as part of the recertification.
