
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.102 Verification and calibration of electronic gas measurement systems.
######## Transducer verification and calibration after installation or repair.

(a)(1) Before performing any verification required in this section, the operator must perform a leak test in the manner prescribed in ยง 3175.92(a)(1).

(2) The operator must verify the points listed in API 21.1, Subsection 7.3.3 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3175.30), by comparing the values from the certified test device with the values used by the flow computer to calculate flow rate. If any of these as-left readings vary from the test equipment reading by more than the tolerance determined by API 21.1, Subsection 8.2.2.2, Equation 24 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3175.30), then that transducer must be replaced and the new transducer must be tested under this paragraph.

(3) For absolute static-pressure transducers, the value of atmospheric pressure used when the transducer is vented to atmosphere must be calculated under appendix A to this subpart, measured by a NIST-certified barometer with a stated accuracy of +/-0.05 psi or better, or obtained from an absolute-pressure calibration device.

(4) Before putting a meter into service, the differential-pressure transducer must be tested at zero with full working pressure applied to both sides of the transducer. If the absolute value of the transducer reading is greater than the reference accuracy of the transducer, expressed in inches of water column, the transducer must be re-zeroed.
