
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.102 Verification and calibration of electronic gas measurement systems.
######## Routine verification procedures.

(c)Verifications must be performed according to API 21.1, Subsection 8.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), with the following exceptions, additions, and clarifications:

(1) Before performing any verification required under this section, the operator must perform a leak test consistent with § 3175.92(a)(1).

(2) An as-found verification for differential pressure, static pressure and temperature must be conducted at the normal operating point of each transducer.

(i) The normal operating point is the mean value taken over a previous time period not less than 1 day or greater than 1 month. Acceptable mean values include means weighted based on flow time and flow rate.

(ii) For differential and static-pressure transducers, the pressure applied to the transducer for this verification must be within five percentage points of the normal operating point. For example, if the normal operating point for differential pressure is 17 percent of the upper calibrated limit, the normal point verification pressure must be between 12 percent and 22 percent of the upper calibrated limit.

(iii) For the temperature transducer, the water bath or test thermometer well must be within 20 &#xB0;F of the normal operating point for temperature.

(3) If any of the as-found values are in error by more than the manufacturer's specification for stability or drift-as adjusted for static pressure and ambient temperature-on two consecutive verifications, that transducer must be replaced prior to returning the meter to service.

(4) If a transducer is calibrated, the as-left verification must include the normal operating point of that transducer, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(5) The as-found values for differential pressure obtained with the low side vented to atmospheric pressure must be corrected to working-pressure values using API 21.1, Annex H, Equation H.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).

(6) The verification tolerance for differential and static pressure is defined by API 21.1, Subsection 8.2.2.2, Equation 24 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30). The verification tolerance for temperature is equivalent to the uncertainty of the temperature transmitter or 0.5 &#xB0;F, whichever is greater.

(7) All required verification points must be within the verification tolerance before returning the meter to service.

(8) Before putting a meter into service, the differential-pressure transducer must be tested at zero with full working pressure applied to both sides of the transducer. If the absolute value of the transducer reading is greater than the reference accuracy of the transducer, expressed in inches of water column, the transducer must be re-zeroed.
