
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.104 Logs and records.

(a) The operator must retain, and submit to the BLM upon request, the original, unaltered, unprocessed, and unedited daily and hourly QTRs, which must contain the information identified in API 21.1, Subsection 5.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), with the following additions and clarifications:

(1) The information required in § 3170.7(g) of this part;

(2) The volume, flow time, and integral value or average extension must be reported to at least 5 decimal places. The average differential pressure, static pressure, and temperature as calculated in § 3175.103(c), must be reported to at least three decimal places; and

(3) A statement of whether the operator has submitted the integral value or average extension.

(b) The operator must retain, and submit to the BLM upon request, the original, unaltered, unprocessed, and unedited configuration log, which must contain the information specified in API 21.1, Subsection 5.4 (including the flow-computer snapshot report in API 21.1, Subsection 5.4.2), and API 21.1, Annex G (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), with the following additions and clarifications:

(1) The information required in § 3170.7(g) of this part;

(2) Software/firmware identifiers under API 21.1, Subsection 5.3 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30);

(3) For very-low-volume FMPs only, the fixed temperature, if not continuously measured ( &#xB0;F); and

(4) The static-pressure tap location (upstream or downstream).

(c) The operator must retain, and submit to the BLM upon request, the original, unaltered, unprocessed, and unedited event log. The event log must comply with API 21.1, Subsection 5.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), with the following additions and clarifications: The event log must have sufficient capacity and must be retrieved and stored at intervals frequent enough to maintain a continuous record of events as required under § 3170.7 of this part, or the life of the FMP, whichever is shorter.

(d) The operator must retain an alarm log and provide it to the BLM upon request. The alarm log must comply with API 21.1, Subsection 5.6 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).

(e) Records may only be submitted from accounting system names and versions and flow computer makes and models that have been approved by the BLM (see § 3175.49).
