
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.115 Spot samples - frequency.
######## Timeframes for implementation.

(1)(i) For high-volume FMPs, the BLM may change the sampling frequency no sooner than 2 years after the FMP begins measuring gas or January 19, 2021, whichever is later; and

(ii) For very-high-volume FMPs, the BLM may change the sampling frequency or require compliance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section no sooner than 1 year after the FMP begins measuring gas or January 17, 2020, whichever is later.

(2) The BLM will calculate the new sampling frequency needed to achieve the heating value uncertainty levels required in § 3175.31(b). The BLM will base the sampling frequency calculation on the heating value variability. The BLM will notify the operator of the new sampling frequency.

(3) The new sampling frequency will remain in effect until the heating value variability justifies a different frequency.

(4) The new sampling frequency will not be more frequent than once every 2 weeks nor less frequent than once every 6 months.

(5) For very-high-volume FMPs, the BLM may require the installation of a composite sampling system or on-line GC if the heating value uncertainty levels in § 3175.31(b) cannot be achieved through spot sampling. Composite sampling systems or on-line gas chromatographs that are installed and operated in accordance with this section comply with the uncertainty requirement of § 3175.31(b)(2).

(c) The time between any two samples must not exceed the timeframes shown in Table 1 to this section.

(d) If a composite sampling system or an on-line GC is installed under § 3175.116 or § 3175.117, either on the operator's own initiative or in response to a BLM order for a very-high-volume FMP under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, it must be installed and operational no more than 30 days after the due date of the next sample.

(e) The required sampling frequency for an FMP at which a composite sampling system or an on-line gas chromatograph is removed from service is prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
