
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### § 3175.120 Gas analysis report requirements.

(a) The gas analysis report must contain the following information:

(1) The information required in § 3170.7(g) of this part;

(2) The date and time that the sample for spot samples was taken or, for composite samples, the date the cylinder was installed and the date the cylinder was removed;

(3) The date and time of the analysis;

(4) For spot samples, the effective date, if other than the date of sampling;

(5) For composite samples, the effective start and end date;

(6) The name of the laboratory where the analysis was performed;

(7) The device used for analysis (i.e., GC, calorimeter, or mass spectrometer);

(8) The make and model of analyzer;

(9) The date of last calibration or verification of the analyzer;

(10) The flowing temperature at the time of sampling;

(11) The flowing pressure at the time of sampling, including units of measure (psia or psig);

(12) The flow rate at the time of sampling;

(13) The ambient air temperature at the time of sampling;

(14) Whether or not heat trace or any other method of heating was used;

(15) The type of sample (i.e., spot-cylinder, spot-portable GC, composite);

(16) The sampling method if spot-cylinder (e.g., fill and empty, helium pop);

(17) A list of the components of the gas tested;

(18) The un-normalized mole percents of the components tested, including a summation of those mole percents;

(19) The normalized mole percent of each component tested, including a summation of those mole percents;

(20) The ideal heating value (Btu/scf);

(21) The real heating value (Btu/scf), dry basis;

(22) The hexane+ split, if applicable;

(23) The pressure base and temperature base;

(24) The relative density; and

(25) The name of the company obtaining the gas sample.

(b) Components that are listed on the analysis report, but not tested, must be annotated as such.

(c) The heating value and relative density must be calculated under API 14.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).

(d) The base supercompressibility must be calculated under AGA Report No. 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).

(e) The operator must submit all gas analysis reports to the BLM within 15 days of the due date for the sample as specified in § 3175.115.

(f) Unless a variance is granted, the operator must submit all gas analysis reports and other required related information electronically through the GARVS. The BLM will grant a variance to the electronic-submission requirement only in cases where the operator demonstrates that it is a small business, as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration, and does not have access to the Internet.
