
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.126 Reporting of heating value and volume.
######## Edits and adjustments to reported volume or heating value.

(c)(1) If for any reason there are measurement errors stemming from an equipment malfunction that results in discrepancies to the calculated volume or heating value of the gas, the volume or heating value reported during the period in which the volume or heating value error persisted must be estimated.

(2) All edits made to the data before the submission of the OGOR must be documented and include verifiable justifications for the edits made. This documentation must be maintained under ยง 3170.7 of this part and must be submitted to the BLM upon request.

(3) All values on daily and hourly QTRs that have been changed or edited must be clearly identified and must be cross referenced to the justification required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) The volumes reported on the OGOR must be corrected beginning with the date that the inaccuracy occurred. If that date is unknown, the volumes must be corrected beginning with the production month that includes the date that is half way between the date of the previous verification and the most recent verification date.
