
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3170 - ONSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
###### Subpart 3175 - Measurement of Gas
####### ยง 3175.131 General requirements for transducer testing.
######## Number and selection of transducers tested.

(b)(1) A minimum of five transducers of the same make, model, and URL, selected at random from the stock used to supply normal field operations, must be type-tested.

(2) The serial number of each transducer selected must be documented. The date, location, and batch identifier, if applicable, of manufacture must be ascertainable from the serial number.

(3) For the purpose of this section, the term "model" refers to the base model number on which the BLM determines the transducer performance. For example: A manufacturer makes a transmitter with a model number 1234-XYZ, where "1234" identifies the transmitter cell, "X" identifies the output type, "Y" identifies the mounting type, and "Z" identifies where the static pressure is taken. The testing under this section would only be required on the base model number ("1234"), assuming that "X", "Y", or "Z" does not affect the performance of the transmitter.

(4) For multi-variable transducers, each cell URL must be tested only once under this section. For example: A manufacturer of a transducer measuring both differential and static pressure makes a model with available differential-pressure URLs of 100 inches, 500 inches, and 1,000 inches, and static-pressure URLs of 250 psia, 1,000 psia, and 2,500 psia. Although there are nine possible combinations of differential-pressure and static-pressure URLs, only six tests are required to cover each cell URL.
