
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3204 - Noncompetitive Leasing Other Than Direct Use Leases
####### ยง 3204.11 How may I acquire a noncompetitive lease for lands that were not sold at a competitive lease sale?

(a) For a 2-year period following a competitive lease sale, you may file a noncompetitive lease application for lands on which no bids were received, on a form available from BLM. Submit 2 executed copies of the applicable form to BLM. At least one form must have an original signature. We will accept only exact copies of the form on one 2-sided page.

(1) For 30 days after the competitive geothermal lease sale, noncompetitive applications will be accepted only for parcels as configured in the Notice of Competitive Geothermal Lease Sale.

(2) Subsequent to the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you may file a noncompetitive application for any available lands covered by the competitive lease sale.

(b)(1) All applications for a particular parcel under this section will be considered simultaneously filed if received in the proper BLM office any time during the first business day following the competitive lease sale. You may submit only one application per parcel. An application will not be available for public inspection the day it is filed. BLM will randomly select an application among those accepted on the first business day to receive a lease offer.

(2) Subsequent to the first business day following the competitive lease sale, the first qualified applicant to submit an application will be offered the lease. If BLM receives simultaneous applications as to date and time for overlapping lands, BLM will randomly select one to receive a lease offer.
