
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3207 - Lease Terms and Extensions
####### ยง 3207.11 What work am I required to perform during the first 10 years of my lease for BLM to grant the initial extension of the primary term of my lease?

(a) By the end of the 10th year, you must expend a minimum of $40 per acre in development activities that provide additional geologic or reservoir information, such as:

(1) Geologic investigation and analysis;

(2) Drilling temperature gradient wells;

(3) Core drilling;

(4) Geochemical or geophysical surveys;

(5) Drilling production or injection wells;

(6) Reservoir testing; or

(7) Other activities approved by BLM.

(b) In lieu of the work requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, you may:

(1) Make a payment to BLM equivalent to the required work expenditure such that the total of the payment and the value of the work you perform equals $40 per acre (or fraction thereof) of land included in your lease; or

(2) Submit documentation to BLM that you have produced or utilized geothermal resources in commercial quantities.

(c) Prior to the end of the 10th year of the primary term, you must submit detailed information to BLM demonstrating that you have complied with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. Describe the activities by type, location, date(s) conducted, and the dollar amount spent on those operations. Include all geologic information obtained from your activities in your report. Submit additional information that BLM requires to determine compliance within the timeframe that we specify. We must approve the type of work done and the expenditures claimed in your report before we can credit them toward your requirements.

(d) If you do not perform development activities, make payments, or document production or utilization as required by this section, your lease will expire at the end of the 10-year primary term.

(e) If you complied with paragraph (c) of this section, but BLM has not determined by the end of the 10th year whether you have complied with the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, upon request we will suspend your lease effective immediately before its expiration in order to determine your compliance. If we determine that you have complied, we will lift the suspension and grant the first 5-year extension of the primary term effective on the first day of the month following our determination of compliance. If we determine that you have not complied, we will terminate the suspension and your lease will expire upon the date of the termination of the suspension.

(f) Every 3 calendar years the dollar amount of the work requirements and the amount to be paid in lieu of such work required by this section will automatically be updated. The update will be based on the change in the Implicit Price Deflator-Gross Domestic Product for those 3 years.
