
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3207 - Lease Terms and Extensions
####### ยง 3207.15 How do I qualify for a production extension?

(a) BLM will grant a production extension of up to 35 years, if you are producing or utilizing geothermal resources in commercial quantities.

(b) Before granting a production extension, BLM must determine that you:

(1) Have a well that is actually producing geothermal resources in commercial quantities; or

(2)(i) Have completed a well that is capable of producing geothermal resources in commercial quantities; and

(ii) Are making diligent efforts toward utilization of the resource.

(c) To qualify for a production extension under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, unless BLM specifies otherwise you must demonstrate on an annual basis that you are making diligent efforts toward utilization of the resource.

(d) BLM will make the determinations required under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) of this section based on the information you provide under subparts 3264 and 3276 and any other information that BLM may require you to submit.

(e) For BLM to make the determination required under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, you must provide BLM with information, such as:

(1) Actions you have taken to identify and define the geothermal resource on your lease;

(2) Actions you have taken to negotiate marketing arrangements, sales contracts, drilling agreements, or financing for electrical generation and transmission projects;

(3) Current economic factors and conditions that would affect the decision of a prudent operator to produce or utilize geothermal resources in commercial quantities on your lease; and

(4) Other actions you have taken, such as obtaining permits, conducting environmental studies, and meeting permit requirements.

(f) Your production extension will begin on the first day of the month following the end of the primary term (including the initial and additional extensions) or the drilling extension.

(g) Your production extension will continue for up to 35 years as long as the geothermal resource is being produced or utilized in commercial quantities. If you fail to produce or utilize geothermal resources in commercial quantities, BLM will terminate your lease unless you meet the conditions set forth in ยง 3212.15 or ยง 3213.19.
