
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3210 - Additional Lease Information
####### ยง 3210.14 May BLM readjust the terms and conditions in my lease?

(a)(1) Except for rentals and royalties (readjustments of which are addressed in paragraph (b) of this section, BLM may readjust the terms and conditions of your lease 10 years after you begin production of geothermal resources from your lease, and at not less than 10-year intervals thereafter, under the procedures of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(2) If another Federal agency manages the lands' surface, we will ask that agency to review the related terms and conditions and propose any readjustments. Once BLM and the surface managing agency reach agreement and the surface managing agency approves the proposed readjustment, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.

(b) BLM may readjust your lease rentals and royalties at not less than 20-year intervals beginning 35 years after we determine that your lease is producing geothermal resources in commercial quantities. BLM will not increase your rentals or royalties by more than 50 percent over the rental or royalties you paid before the readjustment.

(c) BLM will give you a written proposal to readjust the rentals, royalties, or other terms and conditions of your lease. You will have 30 days after you receive the proposal to file with BLM an objection in writing to the proposed new terms and conditions.

(d) If you do not object in writing or relinquish your lease, you will conclusively be deemed to have agreed to the proposed new terms and conditions. BLM will issue a written decision setting the date that the new terms and conditions become effective as part of your lease. This decision will be in full force and effect under its own terms, and you are not authorized to appeal the BLM decision to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.

(e)(1) If you file a timely objection in writing, BLM may issue a written decision making the readjusted terms and conditions effective no sooner than 90 days after we receive your objections, unless we reach an agreement with you as to the readjusted terms and conditions of your lease that makes them effective sooner.

(2) If BLM does not reach an agreement with you by 60 days after we receive your objections, then either the lessee or BLM may terminate your lease, upon giving the other party 30 days' notice in writing. A termination under this paragraph does not affect your obligations that accrued under the lease when it was in effect, including those specified in ยง 3200.4.
