
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3211 - Filing and Processing Fees, Rent, Direct Use Fees, and Royalties
####### § 3211.11 What are the annual lease rental rates?

(a) BLM calculates annual rent based on the amount of acreage covered by your lease. To determine lease acreage for this section, round up any partial acreage up to the next whole acre. For example, the annual rent on a 2,456.39 acre lease is calculated based on 2,457 acres.

(b) For leases issued on or after August 8, 2005 (other than leases issued in response to applications that were pending on that date for which no election is made under § 3200.8(b)(1)), and for leases issued before August 8, 2005, for which an election is made under § 3200.7(a)(2), the rental rate is as follows:

(1) If you obtained your lease through a competitive lease sale, then your annual rent is $2 per acre for the first year, and $3 per acre for the second through tenth year;

(2) If you obtained your lease noncompetitively, then your annual rent is $1 per acre for the first 10 years; and

(3) After the tenth year, your annual rent will be $5 per acre, regardless of whether you obtained your lease through a competitive lease sale or noncompetitively.

(c) For leases issued before August 8, 2005, for which no election is made under § 3200.7(a)(2), and for leases issued in response to applications pending on that date for which no election is made under § 3200.8(b)(1), the rental rate is the rate prescribed in the regulations in effect on August 8, 2005 (43 CFR 3211.10 (2004)).

(d) For leases in which the United States owns only a fractional interest in the geothermal resources, BLM will prorate the rents established in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, based on the fractional interest owned by the United States. For example, if the United States owns 50 percent of the geothermal resources in a 640 acre lease, you pay rent based on 320 acres.
