
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3200 - GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE LEASING
###### Subpart 3272 - Utilization Plan and Facility Construction Permit
####### ยง 3272.12 What environmental protection measures must I include in my utilization plan?

(a) Describe, at a minimum, your proposed measures to:

(1) Prevent or control fires;

(2) Prevent soil erosion;

(3) Protect surface or ground water;

(4) Protect fish and wildlife;

(5) Protect cultural, visual, and other natural resources;

(6) Minimize air and noise pollution; and

(7) Minimize hazards to public health and safety during normal operations.

(b) If BLM requires it, you must also describe how you will monitor your facility operations to ensure that they comply with the requirements of ยง 3200.4, and applicable noise, air, and water quality standards, at all times. We will consult with other involved surface management agencies, if any, regarding monitoring requirements. You must also include provisions for monitoring other environmental parameters we may require.

(c) Based on what level of impacts that BLM finds your operations may cause, we may require you to collect data concerning existing air and water quality, noise, seismicity, subsidence, ecological systems, or other environmental information for up to 1 year before you begin operating. BLM must approve your data collection methodologies, and will consult with any other surface managing agencies involved.

(d) You must also describe how you will abandon utilization facilities and restore the site, in order to comply with the requirements of ยง 3200.4.

(e) Finally, you must submit any additional information or data that BLM may require.
