
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart K - Hearing Process Concerning Acknowledgment of American Indian Tribes
##### Information Disclosure
###### ยง 4.1034 What are the procedures for limiting disclosure of information which is confidential or exempt by law from public disclosure?

(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from disclosure to other parties or to the public a document or testimony containing information which is confidential or exempt by law from public disclosure.

(b) In the motion the person must describe the information sought to be protected from disclosure and explain in detail:

(1) Why the information is confidential or exempt by law from public disclosure;

(2) Why disclosure of the information would adversely affect the person; and

(3) Why disclosure is not required in the public interest.

(c) If the person seeks non-disclosure of information in a document:

(1) The motion must include a copy of the document with the confidential information deleted. If it is not practicable to submit such a copy of the document because deletion of the information would render the document unintelligible, a description of the document may be substituted.

(2) The ALJ may require the person to file a sealed copy of the document for in camera inspection.

(d) Ordinarily, documents and testimony introduced into the public hearing process are presumed to be public. In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect the person, consistent with the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b), and other applicable law.
