
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3420 - COMPETITIVE LEASING
###### Subpart 3420 - Competitive Leasing
####### ยง 3420.1-3 Special leasing opportunities.
######## Public bodies.

(1)(i) Only public bodies with a definite plan for producing energy for their own use or for their members or customers shall bid for leases designated as special leasing opportunities for public bodies. To qualify as a definite plan, a plan must clearly state the intended use of the coal and have been approved by the governing board of the public body submitting the plan. In the event an electric generating station which will produce energy for the public body is either jointly owned with or participated in by others, or both, the definite plan shall assure that the public body's proportionate part of the energy produced is utilized pursuant to this paragraph.

(ii) Each public body shall submit the information specified in ยง 3472.2-5(a) (1) and (2) of this title as part of its expression of leasing interest or upon submission of a bid if no expression of leasing interest is made. The information specified in ยง 3472.2-5(a) (3) and (4) of this title shall be submitted within 60 days after submission of an expression of leasing interest or lease bid if no expression of leasing interest is made.

(iii) The Secretary may designate, during the process of preparing a regional lease sale schedule, certain coal lease tracts for special leasing opportunities for public bodies only if a public body has submitted an expression of leasing interest under ยง 3420.3-2, requesting that the procedures of this section apply.

(iv) Leases issued under this section to public bodies may be assigned only to other public bodies, or to a person who will mine the coal on behalf of and for the use of the public body, or to a person for the limited purpose of creating a security interest in favor of a lender who agrees to be obligated to mine the coal on behalf of the public body.
