
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3420 - COMPETITIVE LEASING
###### Subpart 3420 - Competitive Leasing
####### § 3420.3-1 Area identification process.

(a) This section describes the process for identifying, ranking, analyzing, selecting, and scheduling lease tracts after land use planning has been completed. This process constitutes the "activity planning" aspect of the coal management program. Activity planning may occur where areas acceptable for further consideration for leasing have been identified by land use planning completed consistent with the provisions of § 3420.1-4 of this subpart.

(b) Split estate land otherwise acceptable for further consideration for leasing shall, upon verfication of a refusal to consent received from a qualified surface owner under § 3427.2 of this title, be deleted from further activity planning.

(c) Each regional coal team established under § 3400.4 of this title shall:

(1) Guide tract delineation and preparation of site specific analyses of delineated tracts;

(2) Rank delineated tracts, select tracts that meet the leasing level established by the Secretary, and identify all alternative tract combinations to be analyzed in the regional lease sale environmental impact statement;

(3) Guide the preparation of the regional lease sale environmental impact statement; and

(4) Recommend a regional coal lease sale schedule to the Director.

(d) Public notice and opportunity for participation in activity planning must be appropriate to the area and the people involved. The Bureau of Land Management will make available a calendar listing of the points in the planning process at which the public may participate, including:

(1) The regional coal team meeting to recommend initial leasing levels (see § 3420.2(a)(4));

(2) The regional coal team meeting for tract ranking (see § 3420.3-4(a));

(3) Publication of the regional coal lease sale environmental impact statement (see § 3420.3-4(c)); and

(4) The regional coal team meeting to recommend specific tracts for a lease sale and a lease sale schedule (see § 3420.3-4(g)).
