
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3420 - COMPETITIVE LEASING
###### Subpart 3427 - Split Estate Leasing
####### ยง 3427.2 Procedures.

(a)(1) Each written consent or evidence of written consent shall be filed with the appropriate Bureau of Land Management State office (43 CFR subpart 1821). For lands offered for lease sale pursuant to subpart 3420 of this title, consents or written evidence thereof shall be filed on or before a date prior to the lease sale specified in a notice published in theFor lands offered for lease sale pursuant to subpart 3425 of this title, consents or written evidence thereof shall be filed prior to the posting of the lease sale notice.

(2) Statement of refusal to consent shall be filed with the appropriate Bureau of Land Management State Office, but such statement shall be accepted for filing only during activity planning.

(b) Written consent, evidence of written consent, or statement of refusal to consent may be filed by any private person or persons with a potential interest in the lease sale of split estate lands.

(c) Such filing shall, at a minimum, contain the present legal address of the qualified surface owner, and the name, ownership, interest, if any, and legal address of the party making the filing, and if it is a written consent or evidence thereof, a copy of the written consent or evidence thereof.

(d) The authorized officer shall verify that the written consent or evidence of such consent meets all of the following requirements, and that the statement of refusal to consent meets the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section:

(1) The right to enter and commence mining is transferable to whoever makes the successful bid in a lease sale for a tract which includes the lands to which the consent applies. A written consent shall be considered transferable only if it provides that after the lease sale for the tract to which the consent applies:

(i) The successful bidder shall assume all rights and obligations of the holder of the consent, including the obligation to make all payments to the grantor of the consent and to reimburse the holder of the consent for all money previously paid to the grantor under the consent contract; and

(ii) Neither the holder nor the grantor of the consent has any right under the consent contract to prevent the successful bidder from assuming the rights and obligations of the holder of the consent by imposing additional costs or conditions or otherwise;

(2) The named surface owner is a qualified surface owner as defined in ยง 3400.0-5(gg) of this title; and

(3) The title for all split estate lands described in the filing is held by the named qualified surface owners.

(e) Upon receipt of a filing from anyone other than the named qualified surface owner, the authorized officer shall contact the named qualified surface owner and request his confirmation in writing that the filed, written consent or evidence thereof to enter and commence mining has been granted, and that the filing fully discloses all of the terms of the written consent, or that the refusal to consent is accurate.

(f) The applicable conditions of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be met prior to the lease sale for lands to which the consents apply.

(g) The authorized officer shall in all cases notify the person or persons filing the written consent, evidence of written consent, or statement of refusal to consent of the results of the review of the filing, including any request for additional information needed to satisfy the requirements of this subpart in cases where insufficient information was supplied with the original filing.

(h) The purchase price of any applicable written consent from a qualified surface owner submitted and verified prior to posting of the notice of lease sale shall be included with the description of the tract(s) in the notice of lease sale, and the other terms of the consent shall be included in the detailed statement of the sale for the tract(s). Any consent filed after posting of the notice of lease sale shall be placed in the official file for the lease tract(s) to which the consent applies and shall be available for inspection by the public in the appropriate Bureau of Land Management State office (43 CFR subpart 1821).

(i) Any statement of refusal to consent shall be treated as controlling until the activity planning cycle that includes the area covered by the refusal to consent is repeated or the surface estate is sold. When an activity planning cycle is initiated, the qualified surface owner shall be notified that his/her prior statement of refusal has expired and shall be given the opportunity to submit another statement.

(j) If the surface owner fails to provide evidence of qualifications in response to surface owner consultation or to a written request for such evidence, and if the authorized officer is unable to independently determine whether or not the surface owner is qualified, the authorized officer shall presume that the surface owner is unqualified. The authorized officer shall notify the surface owner in writing of this determination and shall provide the surface owner an opportunity to appeal the determination.

(k) Any surface owner determined to be unqualified by decision of the field official of the surface management agency shall have 30 days from the date of receipt of such decision in which he/she may appeal the decision to the appropriate State Director of the Bureau of Land Management. The surface owner shall have the right to appeal the State Director's decision to the Director, Bureau of Land Management, within 30 days of receipt of that decision. Both appeals under this paragraph shall be in writing. As an exception to the provisions of ยง 3000.4 of this title, the decision of the Director shall be the final administrative action of the Department of the Interior.
