
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3430 - NONCOMPETITIVE LEASES
###### Subpart 3430 - Preference Right Leases
####### ยง 3430.4-4 Environmental costs.
######## Permitting.

(a)(1) Surface water-cost of collecting and analyzing baseline data on surface water quality and quantity (collecting and analyzing samples, constructing and maintaining monitoring facilities, purchasing equipment needed for surface water monitoring).

(2) Groundwater-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline data on groundwater quality and quantity (collecting and evaluating samples from domestic or test wells, purchasing well casings and screens and monitoring equipment, drilling and maintenance of test wells).

(3) Air quality-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline air quality data (purchasing rain, air direction, and wind guages and air samplers and evaporation pans).

(4) Vegetation-costs of collecting and analyzing data on indigenous vegetation (collecting and classifying samples for productivity analyses).

(5) Wildlife-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline data on wildlife species and habitats (collecting wildlife and specimens and data and purchasing traps and nets).

(6) Soils-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline soil data (collecting and analyzing soil samples by physical and chemical means).

(7) Noise-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline data on noise (purchasing necessary equipment).

(8) Socio-economics-costs of conducting social and economic studies for baseline data (collecting and evaluating social and economic data).

(9) Archaeology, history, and other cultural resources-costs of collecting and analyzing data on archaeology, history, and other cultural resources (conducting archaelogical excavations and historical and cultural surveys).

(10) Paleontology-costs of collecting and analyzing paleontological data (conducting surveys and excavations).

(11) Geology-costs of collecting and analyzing baseline geological data (drilling overburden cores and conducting physical and chemical analyses).

(12) Subsidence-costs of collecting and analyzing data on subsidence (setting monuments to measure subsidence).

(13) Mine planning-costs of developing mine permit application package (development of operating, blasting, air and water pollution control, fish and wildlife, and reclamation plans).

(b) Mining-environmental mitigation required by law or proposed to be imposed by the authorized officer.

(1) Surface water protection-costs of mitigating the impacts of mining on the quantity of surface water (purchasing relacement water and transporting it) and on the quality of surface water (construction sedimentation ponds, neutralization facilities, and diversion ditches).

(2) Groundwater protection-costs of mitigating the impacts of mining on the quantity of groundwater (replacing diminished supplies or water rendered unfit for its prior use(s)) and on the quality of groundwater (treating pumped mine water, compensating for damage to water rights, sealing sedimentation ponds).

(3) Air pollution control-costs of mitigating the impacts of mining on air quality (compliance with National Ambient Air Quality Standard and Protection from Significant Deterioration requirements using water and chemical sprays for dust control, installing and operating dust and other pollution collections).

(4) Noise abatement-costs of mitigating the impacts of mining on noise levels in mining area (installing and maintaining noise mufflers on equipment and around the mine site).

(5) Wildlife-costs of mitigating impacts to wildlife species identified as reasonably likely to occur and subject to proposed lease stipulations, and including costs of compliance with the Endangered Species Act and other laws, regulations, and treaties concerning wildlife protection.

(6) Socio-economics-costs of implementing any mitigation measure the Bureau or any other government agency has imposed; and of mitigating impacts on surface owners and occupants, including relocation costs and costs of compensation for improvements, crops, or grazing values.

(7) Archaeology, history, and other cultural-costs of monitoring and inspection during mining to identify archaeological, historical, and other cultural resources, and costs of mitigating impacts to these resources identified as reasonably likely to occur and subject to proposed lease stipulations.

(8) Paleontological-costs of monitoring and inspection during mining to identify paleontological resources and costs of mitigating impacts to these resources identified as reasonably likely to occur and subject to proposed lease stipulations.

(9) Subsidence-costs of mitigating the impacts of subsidence identified as reasonably likely to occur and subject to proposed lease stipulations.

(10) Monitoring-costs of purchasing and maintaining facilities, equipment, and personnel to accomplish monitoring required as a permit condition or lease stipulation, or by law or regulation.
