
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3430 - NONCOMPETITIVE LEASES
###### Subpart 3435 - Lease Exchange
####### ยง 3435.3-1 Exchange notice.

(a) The Secretary shall initiate exchange procedures by notifying in writing a Federal coal lessee or preference right lease applicant that consideration of an exchange of mineral leases or other coal lease interests is appropriate. The notification may be on the Secretary's initiative or in response to a request under ยง 3435.2 of this title.

(b) The exchange notice shall also be provided to the Governor of the affected State(s) concurrent with notice to the lessee or preference right lease applicant stating why the Secretary believes an exchange may be in the public interest.

(c) The exchange notice shall contain a description of the leased lands or lands under preference right lease application being considered for exchange. These lands may include all or part of an existing lease or preference right lease application.

(d) The exchange notice may contain a description of the lands for which the Secretary would grant an exchange lease or lease interest. If a coal lease modification would be granted by exchange, the lands shall be selected from those lands found acceptable for further consideration for coal leasing under ยง 3420.1 of this title; and

(e) The notice shall contain a request that the lessee or preference right lease applicant indicate whether he is willing to negotiate an exchange.
