
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3440 - LICENSES TO MINE
###### Subpart 3440 - Licenses to Mine
####### ยง 3440.1-4 Area and duration of license.

(a) A license to mine for an individual or association in the absence of unusual conditions or necessity, shall be limited to a legal subdivision of 40 acres or less and may be revoked at any time. Each license to mine shall terminate at the end of 2 years from the date of issuance, unless an application for a 2 year renewal is filed and approved before its termination date.

(b) A license to mine to a municipality may not exceed 320 acres for a municipality of less than 100,000 population, 1,280 acres for a municipality between 100,000 and 150,000 population, and 2,560 acres for a municipality of 150,000 population or more. A license to mine to a municipality shall terminate at the end of 4 years from the date of issuance, unless an application for a 4 year renewal is filed and approved before the termination date.

(c) (1) The authorized officer may authorize a recognized and established relief agency of any state upon the agency's request, to take government-owned coal deposits within the state and provide the coal to localities where it is needed to supply families on the rolls of such agency who require coal for household use but are unable to pay for that coal.

(2) Tracts shall be selected in areas assessed as acceptable for mining operations and at points convenient to supply the families in a locality. Each family shall be restricted to the amount of coal actually needed for its use, not to exceed 20 tons annually.

(3) Coal shall be taken from such tracts only by those with written authority from the relief agency. All mining shall be done pursuant to such authorization.
