
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3450 - MANAGEMENT OF EXISTING LEASES
###### Subpart 3453 - Transfers by Assignment, Sublease or Otherwise
####### ยง 3453.2-2 Forms and statements.

(a) Transfers of any record title interest shall be filed in triplicate and shall be accompanied by a request for approval from the transferee.

(b) No specific form need be used for requests for approval of transfers. The request for approval shall contain evidence of the transferee's qualifications, including a statement of Federal coal lease acreage holdings. This evidence shall consist of the same showing of qualifications required of a lease applicant by subpart 3472 of this title. A single signed copy of the qualifications statement is sufficient.

(c) A separate instrument of transfer shall be filed for each lease when transfers involve record titles. When transfers to the same person, association, or corporation involving more than one lease are filed at the same time, one request for approval and one showing as to the qualifications of the transferee shall be sufficient.

(d) A single signed copy of all other instruments of transfer is sufficient, except that collateral assignments and other security or mortgage documents shall not be accepted for filing.

(e) Any transfer of a record title interest or assignment of operating rights shall be accompanied by the transferee's submission of the information specified in ยง 3422.3-4 of this title, including the holdings of any affiliate(s) (including joint ventures) of the transferees, or a statement incorporating a prior submission of the specified information by reference to the date and lease, license or application serial number of the submission, and containing any and all changes in holdings since the date of the prior submission.

(f) Any document of transfer which does not contain a description of all consideration or value paid or promised for the transfer shall be accompanied by a separate statement of all consideration or value, whether cash, property, future payments or any other type of consideration, paid or promised for the transfer.

(g) Information submitted to comply with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section may be labeled as proprietary data and shall be treated in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of such information.
