
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3470 - COAL MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS AND LIMITATIONS
###### Subpart 3472 - Lease Qualification Requirements
####### § 3472.1-2 Special leasing qualifications.

(a) Each applicant or bidder for a lease shall furnish a signed statement showing that, with the area applied or bid for, the applicant or bidder's interests in leases and lease applications, held directly or indirectly, do not exceed in the aggregate the acreage limitation in § 3472.1-3 of this title.

(b) A lease shall not be issued to a minor but may be issued to a legal guardian or trustee on behalf of a minor.

(c) Every company or corporation operating a common carrier railroad shall make a statement that it needs the coal for which it seeks a lease solely for its own railroad use; that it operates main or branch lines in the state in which the lands involved are located; that the aggregate acreage in the leases and applications in which it holds an interest, directly or indirectly, does not exceed 10,240 acres; and that it does not hold more than one lease for each 200 miles of its railroad lines served or to be served from such coal deposits. This last requirement excludes spurs or switches, branch lines built to connect the leased coal with the railroad, and parts of the railroad operated mainly by power not produced by steam.

(d) Aliens may not acquire or hold any direct or indirect interest in leases, except that they may own or control stock in corporations holding leases if the laws of their country do not deny similar or like privileges to citizens of the United States. If any appreciable percentage of stock of a corporation is held by aliens who are citizens of a country denying similar or like privileges to United States citizens, that corporation's application or bid for a lease shall be rejected, and that corporation's lease shall be subject to cancellation.

(e)(1)(i) On or after December 31, 1986, no lease shall be issued and no existing lease shall be transferred to any entity that holds and has held for 10 years any lease from which the entity is not producing the coal in commercial quantities, except as authorized under the advance royalty or suspension provisions of part 3480 of this chapter, or paragraph (e) (4), (5), or (6) of this section.

(ii) An entity seeking to obtain a working interest in a lease, or approval of a transfer under subpart 3453 of this title, shall qualify both on the date of determination of lessee qualifications and on the date the lease is issued or transfer approved.

(iii) Once a lease has been issued to a qualified entity or transfer approved for a lease under subpart 3453 of this title, disqualification at a later date shall not result in surrender of that lease, or recision of the approved transfer, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(2)(i) Any entity seeking to obtain a lease or approval of a transfer of a lease pursuant to 43 CFR Group 3400 of this title shall certify, in writing, that the entity is in compliance with the Act and the requirements of this subpart. The entity's self-certification statement shall include:

(A) A statement that the entity is qualified to be issued a lease or to have a transfer approved in accordance with the presumption of control or the presumption of noncontrol requirements at § 3400.0-5(rr) of this title, and in accordance with the producing requirements at paragraph (e)(6) of this section;

(B) Justification rebutting the presumption of control requirements at § 3400.0-5(rr) of this title, if the entity's instruments of ownership of the voting securities of another entity or of its voting securities by another entity are 20 through 50 percent. The authorized officer, based on the written self-certification statement and other relevant information, shall determine whether the entity has rebutted the presumption of control.

(ii) If a lease is issued, or a transfer approved under subpart 3453 of this title, to an entity based upon an improper, written self-certification of compliance, the authorized officer shall administratively cancel the lease, or rescind the approved transfer, after complying with § 3452.2-2 of this title.

(3) The authorized officer may require an entity holding or seeking to hold an interest in a lease, to furnish, at any time, further evidence of compliance with the special leasing qualifications of this subpart.

(4)(i) An entity, seeking to qualify for lease issuance, or transfer approval under subpart 3453 of this title, shall not be disqualified under the provisions of this subpart if it has one of the following actions pending before the authorized officer for any lease that would otherwise disqualify it under this subpart:

(A) Request for lease relinquishment; or

(B) Application for arm's-length lease assignment; or

(C) Application for approval of a logical mining unit that the authorized officer determines would be producing on its effective date.

(ii) Once a lease has been issued, or transfer approved, to an entity that qualifies under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, an adverse decision by the authorized officer on the pending action, or the withdrawal of the pending action by the applicant, shall result in termination of the lease or recision of the transfer approval. Such decision of the authorized officer shall be effective, regardless of appeal of that decision. The possibility of lease termination shall be included as a special stipulation in every lease issued to an entity that qualifies under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(iii) The entity shall not qualify for lease issuance or transfer under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section during the pendency of an appeal before the Office of Hearings and Appeals from an adverse decision by the authorized officer on any of the actions described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section.

(iv)(A) Where an entity, qualified under this section, had an approved transfer of a lease under subpart 3453 of this title, the transferor retained a right-of-first-refusal, and the entity wishes to relinquish such lease if such lease would otherwise disqualify the entity under this subpart, the entity may file the relinquishment under subpart 3452 of this title. However, the entity shall:
