
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3470 - COAL MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS AND LIMITATIONS
###### Subpart 3473 - Fees, Rentals, and Royalties
####### § 3473.2 Fees.

(a) An application for a license to mine must include payment of the filing fee found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter. BLM may waive the filing fee for applications filed by relief agencies as provided in § 3440.1-1(b) of this chapter.

(b) An application for an exploration license must include payment of the filing fee found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter.

(c) An instrument of transfer of a lease or an interest in a lease must include payment of the filing fee found in the fee schedule in § 3000.12 of this chapter.

(d) BLM will charge applicants for a royalty rate reduction a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in § 3000.11 of this chapter.

(e) BLM will charge applicants for logical mining unit formation or modification a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in § 3000.11 of this chapter.

(f) The applicant who nominates a tract for a competitive lease sale must pay a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in § 3000.11 of this chapter as modified by the provisions below. BLM will include in the sale notice under § 3422.2(b)(9) of this chapter a statement of the total cost recovery fee paid to BLM by the applicant up to 30 days before the competitive lease sale. The cost recovery process for a competitive coal lease follows:

(1) The applicant nominating the tract for competitive leasing must pay the cost recovery amount before BLM will publish a notice of the competitive lease sale;

(2) Before the lease is issued:

(i) The successful bidder, if someone other than the applicant, must pay to BLM the cost recovery amount specified in the sale notice; and

(ii) The successful bidder must pay all processing costs BLM incurs after the date of the sale notice;

(3) If the successful bidder is someone other than the applicant, BLM will refund to the applicant the amount paid under paragraph (f)(1) of this section; and

(4) If there is no successful bidder, the applicant remains responsible for all processing fees.

(g) BLM will charge applicants for modification of a coal lease a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in § 3000.11 of this chapter.
