
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3481 - General Provisions
####### ยง 3481.1 General obligations of the operator/lessee.

(a) The operator/lessee shall conduct exploration activities, reclamation, and abandonment of exploration operations for Federal coal pursuant to the performance standards of the rules of this part, applicable requirements of 30 CFR 815.15 (OSM permanent performance standards for coal exploration) or an approved State program, any Federal lease or license terms and/or conditions, the requirements of the approved exploration plan, and orders issued by the authorized officer.

(b) The operator/lessee shall conduct surface and underground coal mining operations involving development, production, resource recovery and protection, and preparation and handling of coal in accordance with the rules of this part, terms and conditions of the Federal leases or licenses, the approved resource recovery and protection plan, and any orders issued by the authorized officer.

(c) The operator/lessee shall prevent wasting of coal and other resources during exploration, development, and production and shall adequately protect the recoverable coal reserves and other resources upon abandonment.

(d) The operator/lessee shall immediately report to the authorized officer any conditions or accidents causing severe injury or loss of life that could affect mining operations conducted under the resource recovery and protection plan or threaten significant loss of recoverable coal reserves or damage to the mine, the lands, or other resources, including, but not limited to, fires, bumps, squeezes, highwall caving, landslides, inundation of mine with water, and gas outbursts, including corrective action initiated or recommended. Within 30 days after such accident, the operator/lessee shall submit a detailed report of damage caused by such accident and of the corrective action taken.

(e) The principal point of contact for the operator/lessee with respect to any requirement of the rules of this part shall be the authorized officer. All reports, plans, or other information required by the rules of this part shall be submitted to the authorized officer.

(f) The operator/lessee shall provide the authorized officer free access to the Federal premises.
