
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3482 - Exploration and Resource Recovery and Protection Plans
####### ยง 3482.1 Exploration and resource recovery and protection plans.
######## Exploration plans.

(a)For background and application procedures for exploration licenses for unleased Federal coal, see 43 CFR part 3410. For background and application procedures for exploration for Federal coal within an approved permit area after mining operations have commenced, see 30 CFR Chapter VII. For any other exploration for Federal coal prior to commencement of mining operations, the following rules apply:

(1) Except for casual use, before conducting any exploration operations on federally leased or licensed lands, the operator/lessee shall submit an exploration plan to and obtain approval from the authorized officer. Casual use, as used in this paragraph, means activities which do not cause appreciable surface distrubance or damage to lands or other resources and improvements. Casual use does not include use of heavy equipment or explosives or vehicular movement off established roads and trails.

(2) The operator/lessee shall submit five copies of exploration plans to the authorized officer. Exploration plans shall be consistent with and responsive to the requirements of the Federal lease or license for the protection of recoverable coal reserves and other resources and for the reclamation of the surface of the lands affected by the operations. The exploration plan shall show that reclamation is an integral part of the proposed operations and that reclamation will progress as contemporaneously as practicable with such operations.

(3) Exploration plans shall contain all of the following:

(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, and, if applicable, the operator/lessee of record.

(ii) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the applicant who will be present during and be responsible for conducting the exploration.
