
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3482 - Exploration and Resource Recovery and Protection Plans
####### ยง 3482.1 Exploration and resource recovery and protection plans.
######## et seq.

(iii) A narrative description of the proposed exploration area, cross-referenced to the map required under paragraph (a)(3)(viii) of this section, including applicable Federal lease and license serial numbers; surface topography; geologic, surface water, and other physical features; vegetative cover; endangered or threatened species listed pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531,); districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places; and known cultural or archeological resources located within the proposed exploration area.

(iv) A narrative description of the methods to be used to conduct coal exploration, reclamation, and abandonment of operations including, but not limited to-

(A) The types, sizes, numbers, capacity, and uses of equipment for drilling and blasting, and road or other access route construction;

(B) Excavated earth- or debris-disposal activities;

(C) The proposed method for plugging drill holes;

(D) Estimated size and depth of drill holes, trenches, and test pits; and,

(E) Plans for transfer and modification of exploration drill holes to be used as surveillance, monitoring, or water wells.

(v) An estimated timetable for conducting and completing each phase of the exploration, drilling, and reclamation.

(vi) The estimated amounts of coal to be removed during exploration, a description of the method to be used to determine those amounts, and the proposed use of the coal removed.

(vii) A description of the measures to be used during exploration for Federal coal to comply with the performance standards for exploration (ยง 3484.1(a) of this title) and applicable requirements of 30 CFR 815.15 or an approved State program.

(viii) A map at a scale of 1:24,000 or larger showing the areas of land to be affected by the proposed exploration and reclamation. The map shall show existing roads, occupied dwellings, and pipelines; proposed location of trenches, roads, and other access routes and structures to be constructed; applicable Federal lease and license boundaries; the location of land excavations to be conducted; coal exploratory holes to be drilled or altered; earth- or debris-disposal areas; existing bodies of surface water; and topographic and drainage features.

(ix) The name and address of the owner of record of the surface land, if other than the United States. If the surface is owned by a person other than the applicant or if the Federal coal is leased to a person other than the applicant, a description of the basis upon which the applicant claims the right to enter that land for the purpose of conducting exploration and reclamation.

(x) Such other data as may be required by the authorized officer.
