
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3482 - Exploration and Resource Recovery and Protection Plans
####### ยง 3482.1 Exploration and resource recovery and protection plans.
######## Resource recovery and protection plans.

(b)Before conducting any Federal coal development or mining operations on Federal leases or licenses, the operator/lessee shall submit and obtain approval of a resource recovery and protection plan, unless a current resource recovery and protection plan has been approved prior to August 30, 1982. If the resource recovery and protection plan is submitted solely to meet the MLA 3-year submittal requirement, the resource recovery and protection plan shall be submitted to the authorized officer. Upon receipt of a resource recovery and protection plan, the authorized officer will review such plan for completeness and for compliance with MLA. Prior to commencement of any coal development or mining operations on a Federal lease or license, a permit application package containing, among other documents, a resource recovery and protection plan and a permit application shall be submitted to the regulatory authority. On any Federal lease issued after August 4, 1976, MLA requires that a resource recovery and protection plan shall be submitted no later than 3 years after the effective date of the Federal lease. On any Federal lease issued prior to August 4, 1976, MLA requires that a resource recovery and protection plan shall be submitted no later than 3 years after the effective date of the first lease readjustment after August 4, 1976, or the effective date of the operator/lessee's election provided for at ยง 3483.1(b)(1) of this title, unless a current resource recovery and protection plan has been approved. Any resource recovery and protection plan submitted but not approved as of August 30, 1982, shall be revised to comply with these rules. A resource recovery and protection plan for an LMU shall be submitted to the authorized officer as provided in ยง 3487.1(e)(1) of this title.

(c) The authorized officer may contact directly operators/lessees regarding MLA requirements. The resource recovery and protection plan shall contain all the requirements pursuant to MLA for the life-of-the-mine and, unless previously submitted in an LMU application or as directed by the authorized officer, shall include all of the following:

(1) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons responsible for operations to be conducted under the approved plan to whom notices and orders are to be delivered; names and addresses of operators/lessees; Federal lease serial numbers; Federal license serial numbers, if appropriate; and names and addresses of surface and subsurface coal or other mineral owners of record, if other than the United States.

(2) A general description of geologic conditions and mineral resources, with appropriate maps, within the area where mining is to be conducted.

(3) A description of the proposed mining operation, including:

(i) Sufficient coal analyses to determine the quality of the minable reserve base in terms including, but not limited to, Btu content on an as-received basis, ash, moisture, sulphur, volatile matter, and fixed carbon content.

(ii) The methods of mining and/or variation of methods, basic mining equipment and mining factors including, but not limited to, mining sequence, production rate, estimated recovery factors, stripping ratios, highwall limits, and number of acres to be affected.

(iii) An estimate of the coal reserve base, minable reserve base, and recoverable coal reserves for each Federal lease included in the resource recovery and protection plan. If the resource recovery and protection plan covers an LMU, recoverable coal reserves will also be reported for the non-Federal lands included in the resource recovery and protection plan.

(iv) The method of abandonment of operations proposed to protect the unmined recoverable coal reserves and other resources.

(4) Maps and cross sections, as follows:

(i) A plan map of the area to be mined showing the following-

(A) Federal lease boundaries and serial numbers;

(B) LMU boundaries, if applicable;

(C) Surface improvements, and surface ownership and boundaries;

(D) Coal outcrop showing dips and strikes; and,

(E) Locations of existing and abandoned surface and underground mines.

(ii) Isopach maps of each coal bed to be mined and the overburden and interburden.

(iii) Typical structure cross sections showing all coal contained in the coal reserve base.

(iv) General layout of proposed surface or strip mine showing-

(A) Planned sequence of mining by year for the first 5 years, thereafter in 5-year increments for the remainder of mine life;

(B) Location and width of coal fenders; and,

(C) Cross sections of typical pits showing highwall and spoil configuration, fenders, if any, and coal beds.

(v) General layout of proposed underground mine showing-

(A) Planned sequence of mining by year for the first 5 years, thereafter in 5-year increments for the remainder of mine life;

(B) Location of shafts, slopes, main development entries and barrier pillars, panel development, bleeder entries, and permanent barrier pillars;

(C) Location of areas where pillars will be left and an explanation why these pillars will not be mined;

(D) A sketch of a typical entry system for main development and panel development entries showing centerline distances between entries and crosscuts;

(E) A sketch of typical panel recovery (e.g., room and pillar, longwall, or other mining method) showing, by numbering such mining, the sequence of development and retreat; and,

(vi) For auger mining-

(A) A plan map showing the area to be auger mined and location of pillars to be left to allow access to deeper coal;

(B) A sketch showing details of operations including coal bed thickness, auger hole spacing, diameter of holes and depth or length of auger holes.

(5) A general reclamation schedule for the life-of-the-mine. This should not be construed as meaning duplication of a permit application in a permit application package under SMCRA. The resource recovery and protection plan may cross-reference, as appropriate, a permit application submitted under SMCRA to fulfill this requirement.

(6) Any required data which are clearly duplicated in other submittals to the regulatory authority or Mine Safety and Health Administration may be used to fulfill the requirements of the above paragraphs provided that the cross-reference is clearly stated. A copy of the relevant portion of such submittals must be included in the resource recovery and protection plan.

(7) Explanation of how MER of the Federal coal will be achieved for the Federal coal leases included in the resource recovery and protection plan. If a coal bed, or portion thereof, is not to be mined or is to be rendered unminable by the operation, the operator/lessee shall submit appropriate justification to the authorized officer for approval.
