
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3482 - Exploration and Resource Recovery and Protection Plans
####### ยง 3482.2 Action on plans.
######## Exploration plans.

(a)(1)The authorized officer after evaluating a proposed exploration plan and all comments received thereon, and after consultation with the responsible officer of the surface managing agency, and with the regulatory authority when exploration is to be conducted within an approved permit area prior to commencement of mining operations, shall promptly approve or disapprove in writing an exploration plan. In approving an exploration plan, the authorized officer shall determine that the exploration plan complies with the rules of this part, applicable requirements of 30 CFR 815.15 or an approved State program, and any Federal lease or license terms and/or conditions. Reclamation must be accomplished as set forth in the exploration plan. The authorized officer may impose additional conditions to conform to the rules of this part. In disapproving an exploration plan, the authorized officer shall state what modifications, if any, are necessary to achieve such conformity. No exploration plan shall be approved unless the bond, executed pursuant to the provisions of 43 CFR part 3474 or 43 CFR part 3410, has been determined by the responsible officer of the surface managing agency to be adequate. When the land involved in the exploration plan is under the surface management jurisdiction of an agency other than DOI, that other agency must concur with the approval terms of the exploration plan.
