
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3482 - Exploration and Resource Recovery and Protection Plans
####### ยง 3482.3 Mining operations maps.
######## General requirements.

(a)Upon commencement of mining operations, the operator/lessee shall maintain accurate and up-to-date maps of the mine, drawn to scales acceptable to the authorized officer. Before a mine or section of a mine is abandoned, closed, or made inaccessible, a survey of the mine or section shall be made by the operator/lessee and recorded on such maps. All excavations in each separate coal bed shall be shown in such a manner that the production of coal for any royalty reporting period can be accurately ascertained. Additionally, the maps shall show the name of the mine; name of the operator/lessee; Federal lease or license serial number(s); permit number; Federal lease and permit boundary lines; surface buildings; dip of the coal bed(s); true north; map scale; map explanation; location, diameter, and depth of auger holes; improvements; topography, including subsidence resulting from mining; geologic conditions as determined from outcrops, drill holes, exploration, or mining; any unusual geologic or other occurrences such as dikes, faults, splits, unusual water occurrences, or other conditions that may influence MER; and other information that the authorized officer may request. Copies of such maps shall be properly posted to date and furnished, in duplicate, to the authorized officer annually, or at such other times as the authorized officer requests. Copies of any maps, normally submitted to the regulatory authority, Mine Safety and Health Administration, or other State or Federal Agencies, that show all of the specific data required by this paragraph or paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall be acceptable in fulfilling these requirements.
