
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3483 - Diligence Requirements
####### ยง 3483.4 Payment of advance royalty in lieu of continued operation.

(a) Advance royalty may only be accepted in lieu of continued operation upon application to and approval by the authorized officer.

(b) However, any request by an operator/lessee for suspension of the continued operation requirement and payment of advance royalty in lieu thereof shall be made no later than 30 days after the beginning of the continued operation year. If an operator/lessee requests authorization to pay advance royalty in lieu of continued operation later than 30 days after the beginning of any continued operation year, the authorized officer may condition acceptance of advance royalty on the payment of a late payment charge on the amount of the advance royalty due. The late payment charge will be calculated in accordance with 30 CFR 218.20.

(c) For advance royalty purposes, the value of the Federal coal will be calculated in accordance with ยง 3485.2 of this title and this section. When advance royalty is accepted in lieu of continued operation, it shall be paid in an amount equivalent to the production royalty that would be owed on the production of 1 percent of the recoverable coal reserves or the Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves. The advance royalty rate for an LMU shall be deemed to be 8 percent where the Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves contained in the LMU would be recovered by only underground mining operations and 12percent where the Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves contained in the LMU would be recovered only by other mining operations. For LMU's that contain Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves that would be recovered by a combination of underground and other mining methods, the advance royalty rate shall be deemed to be 12percent. The unit value of the recoverable coal reserves for determining the advance royalty payment for a Federal lease or LMU shall be:

(1) The unit value for production royalty purposes of coal produced and sold under the Federal coal lease or LMU during the immediately preceding production royalty payment period; or

(2) Computed at the average unit price at which coal from other Federal leases in the same region was sold during such period, if no coal was produced and sold under the Federal coal lease or LMU during the immediately preceding royalty payment period, or if the authorized officer finds that there is an insufficient number of such sales to determine such value equitably; or

(3) Determined by the authorized officer, if there were no sales of Federal coal from such region during such period or if the authorized officer finds that there is an insufficient number of such sales to determine such value equitably.

(d) The aggregate number of years during the period of any Federal coal lease or LMU for which advance royalty may be accepted in lieu of the requirement of continued operation shall not exceed 10. For Federal leases issued prior to August 4, 1976, advance royalty shall not be accepted in lieu of continued operation for more than a total of 10 years following the first lease readjustment after August 4, 1976. Any continued operation year in which any advance royalty is paid shall be deemed a year in which advance royalty is accepted in lieu of continued operation for the purposes of this paragraph. However, if an operator/lessee meets the requirement for continued operation in any continued operation year in which the operator/lessee has paid advance royalty, such year shall not be considered when calculating the maximum number of years for which advance royalty may be accepted for the Federal lease or LMU. The number of years for which advance royalty has been paid under any Federal coal lease prior to its inclusion in an LMU shall not be considered when calculating the maximum number of years for which advance royalty may be accepted for the LMU.

(e) The dollar amount of any production royalty for a Federal coal lease or LMU owed for any continued operation year during or subsequent to the continued operation year in which advance royalty is paid, shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the dollar amount of any advance royalty paid under that Federal lease or LMU to the extent that such advance royalty has not been used to reduce production royalty for a prior year.

(f) No advance royalty paid during the initial 20-year term of a Federal coal lease or LMU shall be used to reduce a production royalty pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section after the 20th year of the Federal coal lease or LMU. For purposes of this paragraph, the initial 20-year term of a Federal lease shall commence on the effective date of the Federal lease for all Federal leases issued after August 4, 1976; on the effective date of the first lease readjustment after August 4, 1976, for all Federal leases issued prior to August 4, 1976; and on the effective date of LMU approval for all LMU's. Any advance royalty paid on a Federal lease prior to its inclusion in an LMU shall be credited to the LMU and shall be considered to have been paid on the date of LMU approval for the purposes of this paragraph, provided that the Federal lease has been included in an LMU within the initial 20-year term of the Federal lease as determined in this paragraph and to the extent that the advance royalty has not already been credited against production royalty on the Federal lease.

(g) If an operator/lessee fails to make an approved advance royalty payment in any continued operation year, the authorized officer shall inform the operator/lessee in writing that the operator/lessee is in violation of the continued operation requirement. If the operator/lessee then fails to comply with 30 CFR 218.200, the Federal lease or LMU shall be subject to cancellation pursuant to ยง 3483.2 of this title.
