
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3484 - Performance Standards
####### § 3484.1 Performance standards for exploration and surface and underground mining.
######## General performance standards for surface and underground mining,Maximum economic recovery (MER).

(b)-(1)Upon approval of a resource recovery and protection plan for an LMU, or for a Federal lease issued or readjusted after August 4, 1976, the operator/lessee shall conduct operations to achieve MER of the Federal coal. To determine that MER of the Federal coal will be achieved, the authorized officer shall consider the information submitted by the operator/lessee under § 3482.1(c) and/or § 3487.1(c) of this title. The authorized officer may request additional information from the operator/lessee to aid in the MER determination. The operator/lessee shall consider coal preparation operations to avoid the wasting of coal and to encourage the achievement of MER. Federal leases issued prior to August 4, 1976, that have not yet been readjusted after August 4, 1976, shall comply with MLA regarding conservation of the recoverable coal reserves and other resources.

(2) Diligent development, continued operation, advance royalty, and 3-year resource recovery and protection plan submission requirements are addressed at §§ 3483.1 through 3483.6 of this title.
