
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3484 - Performance Standards
####### ยง 3484.1 Performance standards for exploration and surface and underground mining.
######## Barrier pillars left for support.

(6)(i) The operator/lessee shall not, without prior consent of the authorized officer, mine any recoverable coal reserves or drive any underground workings within 50 feet of any of the outside boundary lines of the federally leased or licensed land, or within such greater distance of said boundary lines as the authorized officer may prescribe with consideration for State or Federal environmental or safety laws. The operator/lessee may be required to pay for unauthorized mining of barrier pillars. The authorized officer may require that payment shall be up to, and include, the full value of the recoverable coal reserves mined from the pillars. The drilling of any lateral holes within 50 feet of any outside boundary shall be done in consultation with the authorized officer.

(ii) If the coal in adjoining premises has been worked out, an agreement shall be made with the coal owner prior to the mining of the coal remaining in the Federal barrier pillars which otherwise may be lost. If the water level beyond the pillar is below the operator/lessee's adjacent operations, and all the safety factors have been considered, the operator/lessee, on the written order of the authorized officer, shall mine out and remove all available Federal recoverable coal reserves in such barrier if it can be mined without undue hardship to the operator/lessee; with due consideration for safety; and pursuant to existing mining, reclamation, and environmental laws and rules. Either the operator/lessee or the authorized officer may initiate the proposal to mine coal in a barrier pillar.

(7) The abandonment of a mining area shall require the approval of the authorized officer.
