
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3485 - Reports, Royalties and Records
####### ยง 3485.1 Reports.
######## Exploration report content.

(b)The exploration report shall contain the following information:

(1) Location(s) and serial number(s) of the federally leased or licensed lands.

(2) Nature of exploration operations.

(3) Number of holes drilled and/or other work performed during the year or report period.

(4) Total footage drilled during the year or other period as determined by the authorized officer.

(5) Map showing all holes drilled, other excavations, and the coal outcrop lines.

(6) Analyses of coal and other pertinent tests obtained from exploration operations during the year.

(7) Copies of all in-hole mechanical or geophysical stratigraphic surveys or logs, such as electric logs, gamma ray-neutron logs, sonic logs, or any other logs. The records shall include a log of all strata penetrated and conditions encountered such as water, quicksand, gas, or any unusual conditions.

(8) Status of reclamation of the disturbed areas.

(9) A statement on availability and location of all drill hole logs and representative drill cores retained by the operator/lessee pursuant to ยง 3484.1(a) of this title.

(10) Any other information requested by the authorized officer.

(c) Any coal reserve base, minable reserve base or recoverable coal reserves estimates generated from an exploration license shall be submitted to the authorized officer within 1 year after completion of drilling operations.
