
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3487 - Logical Mining Unit
####### ยง 3487.1 Logical mining units.

(a) An LMU shall become effective only upon approval of the authorized officer. The effective date for an LMU may be established by the authorized officer between the date that the authorized officer receives an application for LMU approval and the date the authorized officer approves the LMU. The effective date of the LMU approval shall be determined by the authorized officer in consultation with the LMU applicant. An LMU may be enlarged by the addition of other Federal coal leases or with interests in non-Federal coal deposits, or both, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. An LMU may be diminished by creation of other separate Federal leases or LMU's in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(b) The authorized officer may direct, or an operator/lessee may initiate, the establishment of an LMU containing only Federal coal leases issued after August 4, 1976. The authorized officer may direct, or an operator/lessee may initiate, the establishment of an LMU containing Federal coal leases issued prior to August 4, 1976, provided that the operators/lessees consent to making all such Federal leases within the LMU subject to the uniform requirements for submittal of a resource recovery and protection plan, LMU recoverable coal reserves exhaustion, diligent development, continued operation, MER, advance royalty, and royalty reporting periods (but not royalty rates) made applicable by the LMU stipulations and the rules of this part. Any Federal lease included in an LMU shall have its terms amended as necessary so that its terms and conditions are consistent with the stipulations required for the approval of the LMU pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
