
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3487 - Logical Mining Unit
####### ยง 3487.1 Logical mining units.
######## Contents of an LMU application.

(c)An operator/lessee must submit five copies of an LMU application to the authorized officer if the operator/lessee is applying on his own initiative to combine lands into an LMU, or if directed to establish an LMU by the authorized officer in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Such application shall include the following:

(1) Name and address of the designated operator/lessee of the LMU.

(2) Federal lease serial numbers and description of the land and all coal beds considered to be of minable thickness within the boundary of the LMU. Identification of those coal beds proposed to be excluded from any Federal lease which would be a part of the LMU.

(3) Documents and related information supporting a finding of effective control of the lands to be included in the LMU.

(4) Sufficient data to enable the authorized officer to determine that MER of the Federal recoverable coal reserves will be achieved by establishment of the LMU. If a coal bed, or portion thereof, is proposed not to be mined or to be rendered unminable by the operation, the operator/lessee shall submit appropriate justification to the authorized officer for approval.

(5) Any other information required by the authorized officer.

(6) If any confidential information is included in the submittal and is identified as such by the operator/lessee, it shall be treated in accordance with ยง 3481.3 of this title.
