
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3487 - Logical Mining Unit
####### ยง 3487.1 Logical mining units.
######## Stipulations.

(e)Prior to the approval of an LMU, the authorized officer shall notify the operator/lessee and responsible officer of the surface managing agency of stipulations required for the approval of the proposed LMU. The LMU stipulations shall provide for:

(1) The submittal, within 3 years from the effective date of LMU approval, of a resource recovery and protection plan that contains the information required by ยง 3482.1(c) of this title for all Federal and non-Federal lands within the LMU.

(2) A schedule for the achievement of diligent development and continued operation for the LMU. The schedule shall reflect the date for achieving diligent development and maintaining continued operation of the individual Federal leases included in the LMU, consistent with the rules of this part. An operator/lessee may request to pay advance royalty in lieu of continued operation in accordance with ยง 3482.1(c) of this title.

(3) Uniform reporting periods for Federal rental and royalty on Federal leases.

(4) The revision, if necessary, of terms and conditions of the individual Federal leases included in the LMU. The terms and conditions of the Federal leases, except for Federal royalty rates, shall be amended so that they are consistent with the stipulations of the LMU.

(5) Estimates of the Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves, and non-Federal LMU recoverable coal reserves, using data acquired by generally acceptable exploration methods.

(6) Beginning the 40-year period in which the reserves of the entire LMU must be mined, on one of the following dates-

(i) The effective date of the LMU, if any portion of the LMU is producing on that date;

(ii) The date of approval of the resource recovery and protection plan for the LMU if no portion of the LMU is producing on the effective date of the LMU; or

(iii) The date coal is first produced from any portion of the LMU, if the LMU begins production after the effective date of the LMU but prior to approval of the resource recovery and protection plan for the LMU.

(7) Any other condition that the authorized officer determines to be necessary for the efficient and orderly operation of the LMU.

(f) The authorized officer may approve an LMU if it meets the following criteria:

(1) The LMU fully meets the LMU definition.

(2) The LMU application demonstrates that mining operations on the LMU, which may consist of a series of excavations, will:

(i) Achieve maximum economic recovery of Federal recoverable coal reserves within the LMU. In determining whether the proposed LMU meets this requirement, BLM, as appropriate, will consider:

(A) The amount of coal reserves recoverable from the proposed LMU compared to the amount recoverable if each lease were developed individually; and

(B) Any other factors BLM finds relevant to this requirement;

(ii) Facilitate development of the coal reserves in an efficient, economical, and orderly manner. In determining whether the proposed LMU meets this requirement, BLM, as appropriate, will consider:

(A) The potential for independent development of each lease proposed to be included in the LMU;

(B) The potential for inclusion of the leases in question in another LMU;

(C) The availability and utilization of transportation and access facilities for development of the LMU as a whole compared to development of each lease separately;

(D) The mining sequence for the LMU as a whole compared to development of each lease separately; and

(E) Any other factors BLM finds relevant to this requirement; and

(iii) Provide due regard to conservation of coal reserves and other resources. In determining whether the proposed LMU meets this requirement, BLM, as appropriate, will consider:

(A) The effects of developing and operating the LMU as a unit; and

(B) Any other factors BLM finds relevant to this requirement.

(3) All single Federal leases that are included in more than one LMU shall be segregated into two or more Federal leases. If only a portion of a Federal lease is included in an LMU, the remaining land shall be segregated into another Federal lease. The authorized officer will consult with the authorized officer about the segregation of such Federal leases. The operator/lessee may apply to relinquish any such portion of a Federal lease under 43 CFR 3452.1.

(4) The operator/lessee has agreed to the LMU stipulations required by the authorized officer for approval of the LMU.

(5) The LMU does not exceed 25,000 acres, including both Federal and non-Federal lands.

(6) A lease that has not produced commercial quantities of coal during the first 8 years of its diligent development period can be included in an LMU only if at the time the LMU application is submitted:

(i) A portion of the LMU under consideration is included in a SMCRA permit approved under 30 U.S.C. 1256; or

(ii) A portion of the LMU under consideration is included in an administratively complete application for a SMCRA permit.

(g) The authorized officer will state in writing the reasons for the decision on an LMU application.
