
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3480 - COAL EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS RULES
###### Subpart 3487 - Logical Mining Unit
####### ยง 3487.1 Logical mining units.
######## Modification of an LMU.

(h)(1) The boundaries of an LMU may be modified either upon application by the operator/lessee and approval of the authorized officer after consultation with the responsible officer of the surface managing agency, or by direction of the authorized officer after consultation with the authorized officer. In accordance with ยง 3482.2(a)(3) of this title, the authorized officer may adjust only the estimate of LMU recoverable coal reserves pursuant to departmental actions or orders that modify the LMU boundaries, or upon approval of an operator/lessee application.

(2) Upon application by the operator/lessee, an LMU may be enlarged by the addition of other Federal coal leases or with interests in non-Federal coal deposits, or both. The LMU boundaries may also be enlarged as the result of the enlargement of a Federal lease in the LMU, pursuant to 43 CFR part 3432. An LMU may be diminished by creation of other separate Federal leases or LMU's or by the relinquishment of a Federal lease or portion thereof, pursuant to 43 CFR part 3452.

(3) In considering an application for the modification of an LMU, the authorized officer shall consider modifying the LMU stipulations, including the production requirement for commercial quantities.

(4) The authorized officer will not extend the 40-year period in which the reserves of the entire LMU must be mined, as specified at paragraph (e)(6) of this section, because of the enlargement of an LMU or because of the modification of a resource recovery and protection plan.
