
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3500 - LEASING OF SOLID MINERALS OTHER THAN COAL AND OIL SHALE
###### Subpart 3502 - Qualification Requirements
####### Special Situations and Additional Concerns
######## ยง 3502.40 What happens if an applicant or successful bidder for a permit or lease dies before the permit or lease is issued?

(a) If probate of the estate has been completed or is not required, BLM will issue the permit or lease to the heirs or devisees, or their guardian. We will recognize the heirs or devisees or their guardian as the record title holders of the permit or lease. They must send us:

(1) A certified copy of the will or decree of distribution, and if no will or decree exists, a statement signed by the heirs that they are the only heirs and citing the provisions of the law of the deceased's last domicile showing that no probate is required; and

(2) A statement signed by each of the heirs or devisees with reference to citizenship and holdings similar to that required by ยง 3502.27 of this part. If the heir or devisee is a minor, the guardian or trustee must sign the statement.

(b) If probate is required but has not been completed, BLM will issue the permit or lease to the executor or administrator of the estate. BLM considers the executor or administrator as the record title holder of the permit or lease. He or she must send:

(1) Evidence that the person who, as executor or administrator, submits lease and bond forms has authority to act in that capacity and to sign those forms;

(2) Evidence that the heirs or devisees are the only heirs or devisees of the deceased; and

(3) A statement signed by each heir or devisee concerning citizenship and holdings, as required by ยง 3502.27 of this part.
