
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3500 - LEASING OF SOLID MINERALS OTHER THAN COAL AND OIL SHALE
###### Subpart 3503 - Areas Available for Leasing
####### Available Areas Under BLM Management
######## ยง 3503.13 For what areas may I receive a hardrock mineral permit or lease?

Subject to the consent of the surface managing agency, you may obtain hardrock mineral permits and leases only in the following areas:

(a) Lands identified in Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1946, for which jurisdiction for mineral leasing was transferred to the Secretary of the Interior. These include lands originally acquired under the following acts:

(1) 16 U.S.C. 520 (Weeks Act);

(2) Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act (40 U.S.C. 401, 403a and 408);

(3) The 1935 Emergency Relief Appropriation Act (48 Stat. 115 and 118);

(4) Section 55 of Title I of the Act of August 24, 1935 (49 Stat. 750 and 781); and

(5) The Act of July 22, 1937 (7 U.S.C. 1011 (c) and 1018 (repealed), Bankhead-Jones Act).

(b) Lands added to the Shasta National Forest by Act of March 19, 1948 (62 Stat. 83);

(c) Public Domain Lands within the National Forests in Minnesota (16 U.S.C. 508 (b));

(d) Lands in New Mexico that are portions of Juan Jose Lobato Grant (North Lobato) and Anton Chica Grant (El Pueblo) as described in section 1 of the Act of June 28, 1952 (66 Stat. 285);

(e) Lands in the Shasta and Trinity Units of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Areas;

(f) The following National Park Lands:

(1) Lake Mead National Recreation Area;

(2) Glen Canyon National Recreation Area; and

(3) Lands in the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area;

(g) Lands patented to the State of California for park or other purposes where minerals were reserved to the United States; and

(h) White Mountains National Recreation Area, Alaska.
