
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3500 - LEASING OF SOLID MINERALS OTHER THAN COAL AND OIL SHALE
###### Subpart 3510 - Noncompetitive Leasing: Fringe Acreage Leases and Lease Modifications
####### ยง 3510.12 What must I do to obtain a lease modification or fringe acreage lease?

(a) File three copies of your application with the BLM office that administers the lands. No specific application form is required.

(b) Include a non-refundable filing fee as provided in ยง 3000.12, Table 1, of this chapter (the fee may be found under "Leasing of Solid Minerals Other Than Coal and Oil Shale (Part 3500)"). You must also make an advance rental payment in accordance with the rental rate for the mineral commodity you are seeking. If you want to modify an existing lease, the BLM will base the rental payment on the rate in effect for the lease being modified in accordance with ยง 3504.15.

(c) Your fringe acreage lease application must:

(1) Show the serial number of the lease if the lands specified in your application adjoin an existing Federal lease;

(2) Contain a complete and accurate description of the lands desired;

(3) Show that the mineral deposit specified in your application extends from your adjoining lease or from adjoining private lands you own or control; and

(4) Include proof that you own or control the mineral deposit in the adjoining lands if they are not under a Federal lease.

(d) Your lease modification application must:

(1) Show the serial number of your Federal lease that you seek to modify;

(2) Contain a complete and accurate description of the lands desired that adjoin the Federal lease you seek to modify; and

(3) Show that-

(i) The adjoining acreage to be added contains known deposits of the same mineral deposit that can be mined only as part of the mining operations on the original Federal lease; or

(ii) As an alternative, show that-

(A) The acreage to be added does not contain known deposits of the same mineral deposit; and

(B) The adjoining acreage will be used for surface activities that are necessary for the recovery of the mineral deposit on the original Federal lease, and

(C) Had the acreage been included in the original Federal lease at the time of that lease's issuance, the original Federal lease would have been reasonably compact.
