
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3590 - SOLID MINERALS (OTHER THAN COAL) EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3590 - Solid Minerals (Other Than Coal) Exploration and Mining Operations - General
####### ยง 3590.2 Responsibility of the authorized officer.

The authorized officer shall regulate prospecting, exploration, testing, development, mining, processing operations, and reclamation authorized under this part. The duties of the authorized officer include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) Approval of operating plans and plan modifications after preparation of appropriate environmental analyses. Prior to approving a plan, the authorized officer shall consult with the agency having jurisdiction over the lands with respect to the surface protection and reclamation aspects of such plan.

(b) Inspection, at least quarterly, of leased, licensed or permitted lands where operations for discovery, testing, development, mining, reclamation, or processing of minerals are being conducted.

(c) Inspection and regulation of such operations for the purpose of preventing waste of mineral substances or damage to formations and deposits containing them, or damage to other formations, deposits or nonmineral resources affected by the operations.

(d) Inspecting exploration and mining operations to determine the adequacy of water management and pollution control measures taken for the protection of the quality of surface and groundwater resources and the adequacy of emission control measures taken for the protection of air quality. Such inspection shall be conducted as necessary and shall be fully coordinated with all State and Federal agencies having jurisdiction.

(e) Requiring operators to conduct operations in compliance with established requirements, including the law, regulations, the terms and conditions of the lease, license or permit, the requirements of approved exploration or mining plans, notices and orders and special stipulations.

(f) Obtaining the records of production of minerals and other information as necessary in order to verify that production reported to the Minerals Management Service for royalty purposes is an accurate accounting of minerals produced.

(g) Acting on applications for suspension of operations and production filed under ยง 3503.3 of this title and terminating such suspensions when conditions warrant. The authorized officer shall, upon request, assist in review of applications for suspension of operations and production on Indian lands which are filed under the provisions of 25 CFR parts 211 and 212.

(h) Upon receipt of a written request for cessation or abandonment of operations, inspecting the operations and determining whether they are in compliance with established requirements. The authorized officer shall, in accordance with applicable procedures, consult with, or obtain the concurrence of the State or Federal agency having jurisdiction over the lands with respect to the surface protection and reclamation requirements of the lease, license or permit and the exploration or mining plan.

(i) Acting on any mineral trespass on Federal or Indian lands in accordance with part 9230 of this title. The surface managing agency, if other than the BLM, shall be notified of any mineral trespass and the planned enforcement action.

(j) Implementing General Mining Orders and issuing other orders, making determinations and providing concurrence and approvals as necessary to implement or assure compliance with the regulations in this part. Any verbal orders, approvals or concurrences shall be promptly confirmed in writing.
