
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3590 - SOLID MINERALS (OTHER THAN COAL) EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3591 - General Obligations of Lessees, Licensees and Permittees
####### ยง 3591.1 General obligations of lessees, licensees and permittees.

(a) Operations for the discovery, testing, development, mining or processing of minerals shall conform to the established requirements.

(b) The surface of lease, license or permit lands shall be reclaimed in accordance with established requirements. Lessees, licensees or permittees shall take such action as may be needed to avoid, minimize or repair:

(1) Waste and damage to mineral-bearing formations;

(2) Soil erosion;

(3) Pollution of the air;

(4) Pollution of surface or ground water;

(5) Damage to vegetation;

(6) Injury to or destruction of fish or wildlife and their habitat;

(7) Creation of unsafe or hazardous conditions;

(8) Damage to improvements; and

(9) Damage to recreation, scenic, historical and ecological values of the lands.

(10) Damage to scientifically significant paleontological and archaeological resources.

(c) All operations conducted under this part shall be consistent with Federal and State water and air quality standards.

(d) Inundations, fires, fatal accidents, accidents threatening damage to the mine, the lands or the deposits, or conditions which could cause water pollution shall be reported promptly to the authorized officer. The notice required by this section shall be in addition to any notice or reports required by 30 CFR part 56 or 57, or other applicable regulations.
