
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3590 - SOLID MINERALS (OTHER THAN COAL) EXPLORATION AND MINING OPERATIONS
###### Subpart 3593 - Bore Holes and Samples
####### ยง 3593.1 Core or test hole cores, samples, cuttings.

(a) The operator/lessee shall submit promptly to the authorized officer a signed copy of records of all core or test holes made on the lands covered by the lease, license or permit. The records shall be in a form that will allow the position and direction of the holes to be located on a map. The records shall include a log of all strata penetrated and conditions encountered, such as water, gas or unusual conditions. Copies of analysis of all samples shall be transmitted to the authorized officer as soon as obtained or as requested by the authorized officer. The operator/lessee shall furnish the authorized officer a detailed lithologic log of each drill hole and all other in-hole surveys or other logs produced. The core from test holes shall be retained by the operator/lessee for 1 year or such other period as may be directed by the authorized officer, and shall be available for inspection by the authorized officer. The authorized officer may cut such cores and receive samples as appropriate. Upon the request of the authorized officer, the operator/lessee shall furnish samples of strata, drill cuttings and mill products.

(b) Surface drill holes for development or holes for prospecting shall be abandoned to the satisfaction of the authorized officer by cementing and/or casing or by other methods approved in advance by the authorized officer and in a manner to protect the surface and not endanger any present or future underground operation or any deposit of oil, gas, other mineral substances or aquifer.

(c) Logs and analyses of development holes shall not be required unless specifically requested by the authorized officer. Drill holes may be converted to surveillance wells for the purpose of determining the effect of subsequent operations upon the quantity, quality of pressure of ground water or mine gases. Such conversion may be required by the authorized officer or requested by the operator/lessee and approved by the authorized officer. Prior to the termination of the lease, license or permit term, all surveillance wells shall be reclaimed unless the surface owner assumes responsibility for reclamation of such surveillance wells. The transfer of liability for reclamation shall be approved in writing by the authorized officer.

(d) When drilling on lands with potential for encountering high pressure oil, gas or geothermal formations, drilling equipment shall be equipped with blowout control devices acceptable to the authorized officer.
