
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3600 - MINERAL MATERIALS DISPOSAL
###### Subpart 3602 - Mineral Materials Sales
####### Applications
######## ยง 3602.12 How does the mineral materials sales process affect other users of the same public lands?

(a) When BLM designates tracts for competitive or noncompetitive sale of mineral materials, and notes the designation in the public land records, it creates a right to remove the materials superior to any subsequent claim, entry, or other conflicting use of the land, including subsequent mining claim locations.

(b) The superior right under paragraph (a) of this section is part of all contracts and permits BLM authorizes within 2 years after the date we designate the tract. BLM may extend this 2-year period for one additional year for good cause. The right continues for the entire term of the contract or permit and any renewal term. The superior right under paragraph (a) of this section also applies to any subsequent contracts or permits that BLM authorizes within 2 years after the previous contract or permit expires or terminates.

(c) This right does not prevent other uses or segregate the land from the operation of the public land laws, including the mining and mineral leasing laws. However, such subsequent uses must not interfere with the extraction of mineral materials.
