
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3600 - MINERAL MATERIALS DISPOSAL
###### Subpart 3602 - Mineral Materials Sales
####### Competitive Sales
######## ยง 3602.43 How does BLM conduct competitive mineral materials sales?

(a) The applicant requesting a mineral materials sale must pay a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in ยง 3000.11 of this chapter as modified by the provisions in this section and in ยง 3602.42(b)(8). The cost recovery process for a competitive mineral materials sale follows:

(1) The applicant requesting the sale must pay the cost recovery fee amount before BLM will publish a sale notice.

(2) Before the contract is issued:

(i) The successful bidder, if someone other than the applicant, must pay to BLM the cost recovery amount specified in the sale notice; and

(ii) The successful bidder must pay all processing costs BLM incurs after the date of the sale notice.

(3) If the successful bidder is someone other than the applicant, BLM will refund to the applicant the amount paid under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) In conducting a competitive sale, BLM may require submission of sealed written bids, oral bids, or a combination of both. The sale notice will state how you must submit your bid. If 2 or more persons make identical high sealed bids, BLM will determine the highest bid by holding an oral auction among the persons making the identical high bids. If no oral bid is made higher than the sealed bids, BLM will pick the successful bidder by lot. After BLM announces the high bid at an oral auction, if you are the high bidder you must confirm that bid in writing at least by the close of business on the date of the sale, or by such time as BLM may specify in the sale notice.

(c) When BLM determines that it is in the public interest to do so, we may reject any or all bids, or may waive minor deficiencies in the bids that would not ordinarily affect the outcome of the bidding.
