
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3730 - PUBLIC LAW 359; MINING IN POWERSITE WITHDRAWALS: GENERAL
###### Subpart 3730 - Public Law 359; Mining in Powersite Withdrawals: General
####### ยง 3730.0-9 Information collection.
######## et seq.

(a) The collections of information contained in subpart 3730 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned clearance number 1004-0110 and subsequently consolidated with 1004-0114. The information will enable the authorized officer to determine whether a mining claimant is qualified to hold a mining claim or site for the exploration, development, and utilization of minerals on all public lands that are withdrawn for power development. A response is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with the Act of August 11, 1955 (30 U.S.C. 621-625), Section 314 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1744), and 30 U.S.C. 28f-28k, as amended by the Act of November 5, 2001 (115 Stat. 414).

(b) Public reporting burden for this information is estimated to average 8 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing records, gathering and maintaining the data collected, and completing and reviewing the information collected. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden; to the Information Collection Clearance Officer (783), Bureau of Land Management, 1849 C St., NW, Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project, 1004-0114, Washington, DC 20503.
