
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3730 - PUBLIC LAW 359; MINING IN POWERSITE WITHDRAWALS: GENERAL
###### Subpart 3734 - Location and Assessment Work
####### ยง 3734.1 Owner of claim to file notice of location and assessment work.

(a) The owner of any unpatented mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site located on land described in ยง 3730.0-1 (a) and (b), shall file all notices or certificates of location, amended notices or certificates, and transfers of interest, with the proper State Office of the Bureau of Land Management pursuant to part 3833 of this chapter, and pay the applicable maintenance, location, and service fees required by part 3830 of this title. The notice, certificate, transfer, or amendment thereto shall be marked by the owner to indicate that it is being filed pursuant to the Act of August 11, 1955, the Act of April 8, 1948, or both, as required by part 3833. Failure to so mark the location certificate will delay the procedures to authorize mining under subpart 3736.

(b) Neither section 4 nor any other provision of the Act validates any mining location made prior to the act, which is invalid because made on lands after they were withdrawn or reserved for power purposes and before a favorable determination by the Federal Power Commission under section 24 of the Federal Power Act of June 10, 1920 (41 Stat. 1063; 1075), as amended (16 U.S.C. 792; 818) and the opening or restoration of the lands to location. Section 4 applies to unpatented locations for lands referred to in ยง 3730.0-3(a) only if:

(1) The location was made on or after August 11, 1955, or

(2) The location was made prior to August 11, 1955, and prior to the withdrawal or reservation of the lands for power purposes, or

(3) The location was made prior to August 11, 1955, on lands restored to location from a powersite reserve or withdrawal subject to section 24 of the Federal Power Act.

(c) The owner of any unpatented mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site located on land described in ยง 3730.0-1 of this chapter may either:

(1) Perform and record annual assessment work if the owner qualifies as a small miner under part 3835 of this chapter; or

(2) Pay an annual maintenance fee of $100 per unpatented mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site in lieu of the annual assessment work or notice of intention to hold, under subpart 3834 of this chapter.
