
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3730 - PUBLIC LAW 359; MINING IN POWERSITE WITHDRAWALS: GENERAL
###### Subpart 3736 - Mining Operations
####### ยง 3736.2 Hearing; notice of protest.

(a) If a hearing is to be held, notice of the hearing will be delivered personally or by registered mail or certified mail to the locator of the placer claim. The notice will indicate the time and place of hearing. The procedures with respect to service of notice of hearing and conduct thereof shall follow the provisions of appeals and contests of the Department of the Interior (part 1850 of this title) in effect at the time the hearing is held. No publication of the notice will be required but a copy thereof shall be posted in the proper office of the Bureau of Land Management for a period of not less than 30 days prior to the date set for the hearing. The manager shall give such publicity to the hearing as may be done without expense to the Government.

(b) Any party, other than a Federal agency, desiring to appear and testify at a hearing in protest to placer mining operations must file a written notice of protest in the proper office wherein the notice of hearing is posted. Such notice, accompanied by the filing fee for notice of protest of placer mining operations found in the fee schedule in ยง 3000.12 of this chapter, must contain the party's name and address and a statement showing the nature of the party's interest in the use of the lands embraced within the mining claim. Each notice of protest must be filed within the period of time specified in the notice of hearing. The authorized officer shall forward a copy of each such notice that is filed to the mining locator prior to the hearing.

(c) Following the hearing, the administrative law judge will render a decision, subject to the right of appeal by any person admitted as a party to the hearing in accordance with the provisions of appeals and contests of the Department of the Interior (part 1850 of this title). Each decision by an administrative lay judge, or upon appeal, shall provide for the issuance of an appropriate order as provided in section 2(b) of the Act; but no such order shall issue until the decision, upon which it is based, becomes final. A certified copy of any order issued shall be filed in the same State or county office in which the location notice has been filed. Any such order permitting mining operations shall be filed at the expense of the mining locator.
