
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3800 - MINING CLAIMS UNDER THE GENERAL MINING LAWS
###### Subpart 3802 - Exploration and Mining, Wilderness Review Program
####### ยง 3802.2 Bond requirements.

(a) Any operator who conducts mining operations under an approved plan of operations shall, if required to do so by the authorized officer, furnish a bond in an amount determined by the authorized officer. The authorized officer may determine not to require a bond where mining operations would cause nominal environmental damage, or the operator has an excellent past record for reclamation. In determining the amount of the bond, the authorized officer shall consider the estimated cost of stabilizing and reclaiming all areas disturbed by the operations consistent with ยง 3802.3-2(h) of this title.

(b) In lieu of a bond, the operator may deposit and maintain in a Federal depository account of the United States Treasury, as directed by the authorized officer, cash in an amount equal to the required dollar amount of the bond or negotiable securities of the United States having a face and market value at the time of deposit of not less than the required dollar amount of the bond.

(c) In place of the individual bond on each separate operation, a blanket bond covering hardrock mining operations may be furnished, at the option of the operator, if the terms and conditions as determined by the authorized officer are sufficient to comply with these regulations.

(d) In the event that an approved plan of operations is modified in accordance with ยง 3802.1-5 of this title, the authorized officer shall review the initial bond for adequacy and, if necessary, shall require that the amount of bond be adjusted to conform to the plan of operations, as modified.

(e) When a mining claim is patented, except for the California Desert Conservation Area, the authorized officer shall release the operator from that portion of the performance bond and plan of operations which applies to operations within the boundaries of the patented land. The authorized officer shall release the operator from the remainder of the performance bond and plan of operations (covering approved means of access outside the boundaries of the mining claim) when the operator has either completed reclamation in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section or those requirements are waived by the authorized officer.

(f) When all or any portion of the reclamation has been completed in accordance with paragraph (h) of ยง 3802.3-2 of this title, the operator shall notify the authorized officer who shall promptly make a joint inspection with the operator. The authorized officer shall then notify the operator whether the performance under the plan of operations is accepted. When the authorized officer has accepted as completed any portion of the reclamation, he shall reduce proportionally the amount of bond with respect to the remaining reclamation.
