
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3800 - MINING CLAIMS UNDER THE GENERAL MINING LAWS
###### Subpart 3809 - Surface Management
####### General Information
######## ยง 3809.5 How does BLM define certain terms used in this subpart?
######### Casual use

means activities ordinarily resulting in no or negligible disturbance of the public lands or resources. For example-

(1) Casual use generally includes the collection of geochemical, rock, soil, or mineral specimens using hand tools; hand panning; or non-motorized sluicing. It may include use of small portable suction dredges. It also generally includes use of metal detectors, gold spears and other battery-operated devices for sensing the presence of minerals, and hand and battery-operated drywashers. Operators may use motorized vehicles for casual use activities provided the use is consistent with the regulations governing such use (part 8340 of this title), off-road vehicle use designations contained in BLM land-use plans, and the terms of temporary closures ordered by BLM.

(2) Casual use does not include use of mechanized earth-moving equipment, truck-mounted drilling equipment, motorized vehicles in areas when designated as closed to "off-road vehicles" as defined in ยง 8340.0-5 of this title, chemicals, or explosives. It also does not include "occupancy" as defined in ยง 3715.0-5 of this title or operations in areas where the cumulative effects of the activities result in more than negligible disturbance.
