
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Review of Section 521 Notices of Violation and Orders of Cessation
###### § 4.1171 Burden of proof in review of section 521 notices or orders.
####### § 4.1187 Procedure if 30-day decision requirement is not waived.

If the applicant does not waive the 30-day decision requirement of section 525(b) of the act, the following special rules shall apply-

(a) The applicant shall serve all known parties with a copy of the application simultaneously with the filing of the application with OHA. If service is accomplished by mail, the applicant shall inform all known parties by telephone at the time of mailing that an application is being filed and shall inform the administrative law judge by telephone that such notice has been given. However, no ex parte communication as to the merits of the proceeding may be conducted with the administrative law judge.

(b) Any party desiring to file a response to the application for review shall file a written response within 5 working days of service of the application.

(c) If the applicant has requested a hearing, the administrative law judge shall act immediately upon receipt of the application to notify the parties of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 working days prior to the hearing date.

(d) The administrative law judge may require the parties to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law at the hearing which may be orally supplemented on the record at the hearing or, where proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law have not been submitted at the hearing, they may be orally presented for the record at the hearing.

(e) The administrative law judge shall make an initial decision. He shall either rule from the bench on the application, orally stating the reasons for his decision or he shall issue a written decision. If the administrative law judge makes an oral ruling, his approval of the record of the hearing shall constitute his written decision. The decision of the administrative law judge must be issued within 15 days of the filing of the perfected application under § 4.1184.

(f) If any party desires to appeal to the Board, such party shall-

(1) If the administrative law judge makes an oral ruling, make an oral statement, within a time period as directed by the administrative law judge, that the decision is being appealed and request that the administrative law judge certify the record to the Board; or

(2) If the administrative law judge issues a written decision after the close of the hearing, file a notice of appeal with the administrative law judge and with the Board within 2 working days of receipt of the administrative law judge's decision.

(g) If the decision of the administrative law judge is appealed, the Board shall act immediately to issue an expedited briefing schedule, and the Board shall act expeditiously to review the record and issue its decision. The decision of the Board must be issued within 30 days of the date the perfected application is filed with OHA pursuant to § 4.1184.

(h) If all parties waive the opportunity for a hearing and the administrative law judge determines that a hearing is not necessary, but the applicant does not waive the 30-day decision requirement, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial decision on the application within 15 days of receipt of the application. The decision shall contain findings of fact and an order disposing of the application. The decision shall be served upon all the parties and the parties shall have 2 working days from receipt of such decision within which to appeal to the Board. The Board shall issue its decision within 30 days of the date the perfected application is filed with OHA pursuant to § 4.1184.

(i) If at any time after the initiation of this expedited procedure, the applicant requests a delay or acts in a manner so as to frustrate the expeditious nature of this proceeding or fails to comply with any requirement of § 4.1187(a), such action shall constitute a waiver of the 30-day requirement of section 525(b) of the act.

(j) If the applicant seeks to offer witnesses, exhibits, or testimony at the hearing in addition to those identified, submitted, described, or summarized in the application for expedited review perfected in accordance with the requirements of § 4.1184, upon objection by an opposing party to such offer, the administrative law judge may allow such objecting party additional time in order to prepare for cross-examination of unidentified witnesses or to identify and prepare rebuttal evidence or otherwise uncover any additional prejudice which may result to such party. The administrative law judge may rule that the running of the 30-day time for decision is stayed for the period of any additional time allowed pursuant to this subsection or may determine that the applicant has waived his right to the 30-day decision.
