
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Applications for Review of Alleged Discriminatory Acts Under Section 703 of the Act
###### ยง 4.1201 Request for scheduling of a hearing.

(a) If OSM determines that a violation of section 703(a) of the act has probably occurred and was not resolved at the informal conference, it shall file with the Hearings Division, OHA, a request on behalf of the applicant that a hearing be scheduled. The request shall be filed within 10 days of the completion of the informal conference, or where no conference is held, within 10 days following the scheduled conference. Where OSM makes such a request, it shall represent the applicant in the administrative proceedings, unless the applicant desires to be represented by private counsel.

(b) If OSM declines to request that a hearing be scheduled and to represent the applicant, it shall within 10 days of the completion of the informal conference, or where no conference is held, within 10 days following the scheduled conference, notify the applicant of his right to request the scheduling of a hearing on his own behalf. An applicant shall file a request for the scheduling of a hearing in the Hearings Division, OHA, within 30 days of service of such notice from OSM.

(c) If no request for the scheduling of a hearing has been made pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and 60 days have elapsed from the filing of the application for review with OSM, the applicant may file on his own behalf a request for the scheduling of a hearing with the main office of OHA. Where such a request is made, the applicant shall proceed on his own behalf, but OSM may intervene pursuant to ยง 4.1110.
