
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3810 - LANDS AND MINERALS SUBJECT TO LOCATION
###### Subpart 3811 - Lands Subject to Location and Purchase
####### ยง 3811.2-1 States where locations may be made.

(a) Mining locations may be made in the States of Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.

(b) The laws of the United States relating to mining claims were extended to Alaska by section 8 of the Act of May 17, 1884 (23 Stat. 26), and sections 15, 16, and 26 of the Act of June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. 327, 329; 48 U.S.C. 119, 120, 381-383) again, in terms, extended the mining laws of the United States and all right incident thereto, to the State, with certain further provisions with respect to the acquisition of claims thereunder.

(c) The law in respect to placer claims in Alaska was modified and amended by the Act of August 1, 1912 (37 Stat. 242) and section 4 of that Act was amended by the Act of March 3, 1925 (43 Stat. 1118).

(d) By the Act of May 4, 1934 (43 Stat. 663; 48 U.S.C. 381a) the Acts of August 1, 1912, and March 3, 1925, were repealed and the general mining laws of the United States applicable to placer mining claims were declared to be in full force and effect in the State.
