
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals to the Board From Decisions or Orders of Administrative Law Judges
###### § 4.1270 Petition for discretionary review of a proposed civil penalty.

(a) Any party may petition the Board to review an order or decision by an administrative law judge disposing of a civil penalty proceeding under § 4.1150.

(b) A petition under this section shall be filed on or before 30 days from the date of receipt of the order or decision sought to be reviewed and the time for filing may not be extended.

(c) A petitioner under this section shall list the alleged errors of the administrative law judge and shall attach a copy of the order or decision sought to be reviewed.

(d) Any party may file with the Board a response to the petition for review within 10 days of receipt of a copy of such petition.

(e) Not later than 30 days from the filing of a petition under this section, the Board shall grant or deny the petition in whole or in part.

(f) If the petition is granted, the rules in §§ 4.1273 through 4.1275 are applicable, and the Board must use the point system and conversion table contained in 30 CFR part 723 or 845 in recalculating assessments. However, the Board has the same authority to waive the civil penalty formula as that granted to administrative law judges in § 4.1157(b)(1). If the petition is denied, the decision of the administrative law judge is final for the Department, subject to § 4.5.
