
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3830 - LOCATING, RECORDING, AND MAINTAINING MINING CLAIMS OR SITES; GENERAL PROVISIONS
###### Subpart E - Failure To Comply With These Regulations
####### ยง 3830.95 What if I pay only part of the service charges, location fees, or first year maintenance fees for newly-recorded claims or sites?

(a) If you pay only part of the service charges, maintenance fees, or location fees when recording new claims or sites, BLM will-

(1) Assign serial numbers to each mining claim or site;

(2) Treat the partial payment as payment of location and maintenance fees and apply the partial payment to the mining claims or sites in serial number order until the money runs out; and

(3) Send a notice to you that you must pay any outstanding service charges as described in ยง 3830.94. For example, BLM will apply the money to cover the location and maintenance fees for as many mining claims or sites as possible. BLM will return any remaining certificates or notices for which we cannot apply full payment of location and maintenance fees. BLM will apply any remaining funds as service charges in serial number order until the money runs out. BLM will then notify you if you must pay any outstanding service charges for mining claims or sites for which you paid location and maintenance fees, as provided in ยง 3830.94.

(b) If you want to resubmit the new location notices or certificates that BLM returned to you, you must do so with the complete service charges, location fees and maintenance fees within 90 days of the original date of location of the claim or site as defined under state law, or you will forfeit the affected mining claims or sites.

(c) BLM will not record your mining claims or sites until you pay the full amount of all charges and fees for those claims or sites.
