
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals to the Board From Decisions or Orders of Administrative Law Judges
###### ยง 4.1272 Interlocutory appeals.

(a) If a party has sought certification under ยง 4.1124, that party may petition the Board for permission to appeal from an interlocutory ruling by an administrative law judge.

(b) A petition under this section shall be in writing and not exceed 10 pages in length.

(c) If the correctness of the ruling sought to be reviewed involves a controlling issue of law the resolution of which will materially advance final disposition of the case, the Board may grant the petition.

(d) Upon granting a petition under this section, the Board may dispense with briefing or issue a briefing schedule.

(e) Unless the Board or the administrative law judge orders otherwise, an interlocutory appeal shall not operate as a stay of further proceedings before the judge.

(f) In deciding an interlocutory appeal, the Board shall confine itself to the issue presented on appeal.

(g) The Board shall promptly decide appeals under this section.

(h) Upon affirmance, reversal or modification of the administrative law judge's interlocutory ruling or order, the jurisdiction of the Board shall terminate, and the case shall be remanded promptly to the administrative law judge for further proceedings.
