
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals to the Board From Decisions or Orders of Administrative Law Judges
###### ยง 4.1273 Briefs.

(a) Unless the Board orders otherwise, an appellant's brief is due on or before 30 days from the date of receipt of notice by the appellant that the Board has agreed to exercise discretionary review authority pursuant to ยง 4.1270 or a notice of appeal is filed.

(b) If any appellant fails to file a timely brief, an appeal under this part may be subject to summary dismissal.

(c) An appellant shall state specifically the rulings to which there is an objection, the reasons for such objections, and the relief requested. The failure to specify a ruling as objectionable may be deemed by the Board as a waiver of objection.

(d) Unless the Board orders otherwise, within 20 days after service of appellant's brief, any other party to the proceeding may file a brief.

(e) If any argument is based upon the evidence of record and there is a failure to include specific record citations, when available, the Board need not consider the arguments.

(f) Further briefing may take place by permission of the Board.

(g) Unless the Board provides otherwise, appellant's brief shall not exceed 50 typed pages and an appellee's brief shall not exceed 25 typed pages.
