
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Appeals to the Board From Decisions of the Office of Surface Mining
###### ยง 4.1282 Appeals; how taken.

(a) A person appealing under this section shall file a written notice of appeal with the office of the OSM official whose decision is being appealed and at the same time shall send a copy of the notice to the Board of Land Appeals.

(b) The notice of appeal shall be filed within 20 days from the date of receipt of the decision. If the person appealing has not been served with a copy of the decision, such appeal must be filed within 30 days of the date of the decision.

(c) The notice of appeal shall indicate that an appeal is intended and must identify the decision being appealed. The notice should include the serial number or other identification of the case and the date of the decision. The notice of appeal may include a statement of reasons for the appeal and any arguments the appellant desires to make.

(d) If the notice of appeal did not include a statement of reasons for the appeal, such a statement shall be filed with the Board within 20 days after the notice of appeal was filed. In any case, the appellant shall be permitted to file with the Board additional statements of reasons and written arguments or briefs within the 20-day period after filing the notice of appeal.
