
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3860 - MINERAL PATENT APPLICATIONS
###### Subpart 3862 - Lode Mining Claim Patent Applications
####### ยง 3862.4-4 Charges for publication.

(a) The charge for the publication of notice of application for patent in a mining case in all districts shall not exceed the legal rates allowed by the laws of the several States for the publication of legal notices wherein the notice is published.

(b) It is expected that these notices shall not be so abbreviated as to curtail the description essential to a perfect notice, and on the other hand that they shall not be of unnecessary length. The printed matter must be set solid without paragraphing or any display in the heading and shall be in the usual body type used in legal notices. If other type is used, no allowance will be made for additional space on that account. The number of solid lines only used in advertising by actual count will be allowed. All abbreviations and copy must be strictly followed. The following is a sample of advertisement set up in accordance with Government requirements and contains all the essential data necessary for publication:

(c) For the publication of citations in contests or hearings, involving the character of lands, the charges may not exceed the rates provided for similar notices by the law of the State.
