
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3870 - ADVERSE CLAIMS, PROTESTS AND CONFLICTS
###### Subpart 3871 - Adverse Claims
####### ยง 3871.3 Action by authorized officer.

(a) Upon the adverse claim being filed within the 60-day period of publication, the authorized officer will immediately give notice in writing to the parties that such adverse claim has been filed, informing them that the party who filed the adverse claim will be required within 30 days from the date of such filing to commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to determine the question of right of possession, and to prosecute the same with reasonable diligence to final judgment, and that should such adverse claimant fail to do so, his adverse claim will be considered waived and the application for patent be allowed to proceed upon its merits.

(b) The Act of September 21, 1961 (Pub. L. 87-260; 75 Stat. 541), amends the Act of June 7, 1910 (36 Stat. 459; 48 U.S.C. 386), and provides that adverse suits against mineral entries in Alaska shall be instituted within the 60-day time limit set forth in R.S. 2325 and 2326, (30 U.S.C. 29, 30). The act further provides that where a mineral patent application was filed prior to the effective date of the act, the time in which to file adverse suits is governed by the Act of June 7, 1910. Where a mineral patent application was filed prior to September 21, 1961, the entry will not be allowed until after the expiration of eight months following the publication period.
