
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3910 - OIL SHALE EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart 3910 - Exploration Licenses
####### ยง 3910.31 Filing of an application for an exploration license.

(a) Applications for exploration licenses must be submitted to the proper BLM office.

(b) No specific form is required. Applications must include:

(1) The name and address of the applicant(s);

(2) The filing fee for an exploration license application found in the fee schedule in ยง 3000.12 of this chapter;

(3) A description of the lands covered by the application according to section, township and range in accordance with the public lands survey system or, if the lands are unsurveyed lands, the legal description by metes and bounds; and

(4) An acceptable electronic format or 3 paper copies of an exploration plan that complies with the requirements of ยง 3931.41 of this chapter. Contact the proper BLM office for detailed information on submitting copies electronically.

(c) An exploration license application may cover no more than 25,000 acres in a reasonably compact area and entirely within one state. An application for an exploration license covering more than 25,000 acres must include justification for an exception to the normal acreage limitation.

(d) Applicants for exploration licenses are required to invite other parties to participate in exploration under the license on a pro rata cost share basis.

(e) Using information supplied by the applicant, the BLM will prepare a notice of invitation and post the notice in the proper BLM office for 30 calendar days. The applicant will publish the BLM-approved notice once a week for 2 consecutive weeks in at least 1 newspaper of general circulation in the area where the lands covered by the exploration license application are situated. The notification must invite the public to participate in the exploration under the license and contain the name and location of the BLM office in which the application is available for inspection.

(f) If any person wants to participate in the exploration program, the applicant and the BLM must receive written notice from that person within 30 calendar days after the end of the 30-day posting period. A person who wants to participate in the exploration program must:

(1) State in their notification that they are willing to share in the cost of the exploration on a pro-rata share basis; and

(2) Describe any modifications to the exploration program that the BLM should consider.

(g) To avoid duplication of exploration activities in an area, the BLM may:

(1) Require modification of the original exploration plan to accommodate the exploration needs of those seeking to participate; or

(2) Notify those seeking to participate that they should file a separate application for an exploration license.
