
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3920 - OIL SHALE LEASING
###### Subpart 3924 - Lease Sale Procedures
####### ยง 3924.10 Lease sale procedures and receipt of bids.

(a) The BLM will accept sealed bids only as specified in the notice of sale and will return to the bidder any sealed bid submitted after the time and date specified in the sale notice. Each sealed bid must include:

(1) A certified check, cashier's check, bank draft, money order, personal check, or cash for one-fifth of the amount of the bonus; and

(2) A qualifications statement signed by the bidder as described in subpart 3902 of this chapter.

(b) At the time specified in the sale notice, the BLM will open and read all bids and announce the highest bid. The BLM will make a record of all bids.

(c) No decision to accept or reject the high bid will be made at the time of sale.

(d) After the sale, the BLM will convene a sales panel to determine:

(1) If the high bid was submitted in compliance with the terms of the notice of sale and these regulations;

(2) If the high bid reflects the FMV of the tract; and

(3) Whether the high bidder is qualified to hold the lease.

(e) The BLM may reject any or all bids regardless of the amount offered, and will not accept any bid that is less than the FMV. The BLM will notify the high bidder whose bid has been rejected in writing and include a statement of reasons for the rejection.

(f) The BLM may offer the lease to the next highest qualified bidder if the successful bidder fails to execute the lease or for any reason is disqualified from receiving the lease.

(g) The balance of the bonus bid is due and payable to the MMS in 4 equal annual installments on each of the first 4 anniversary dates of the lease, unless otherwise specified in the lease.
