
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3930 - MANAGEMENT OF OIL SHALE EXPLORATION AND LEASES
###### Subpart 3931 - Plans of Development and Exploration Plans
####### ยง 3931.30 Suspension of operations and production.

(a) The BLM may, in the interest of conservation, agree to a suspension of lease operations and production. Applications by lessees for suspensions of operations and production must be filed in duplicate in the proper BLM office and must explain why it is in the interest of conservation to suspend operations and production.

(b) The BLM may order a suspension of operations and production if the suspension is necessary to protect the resource or the environment:

(1) While the BLM performs necessary environmental studies or analysis;

(2) To ensure that necessary environmental remediation or cleanup is being performed as a result of activity or inactivity on the part of the operator; or

(3) While necessary environmental remediation or cleanup is being performed as a result of unwarranted or unexpected actions.

(c) The term of any lease will be extended by adding thereto any period of suspension of operations and production during such term.

(d) A suspension will take effect on the date the BLM specifies. Rental, upcoming diligent development milestones, and minimum annual production will be suspended:

(1) During any period of suspension of operations and production beginning with the first day of the lease month on which the suspension of operations and production is effective; or

(2) If the suspension of operations and production is effective on any date other than the first day of a lease month, beginning with the first day of the lease month following such effective date.

(e) The suspension of rental and minimum annual production will end on the first day of the lease month in which the suspension ends.

(f) The minimum annual production requirements of a lease will be proportionately reduced for that portion of a lease year for which a suspension of operations and production is directed or granted by the BLM, as would any payments in lieu of production.
