
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter C - Minerals Management (3000)
##### PART 3930 - MANAGEMENT OF OIL SHALE EXPLORATION AND LEASES
###### Subpart 3931 - Plans of Development and Exploration Plans
####### ยง 3931.70 Production maps and production reports.

(a) Report production of all oil shale products or by-products to the BLM on a quarterly basis no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the reporting period.

(b) Report all production and royalty information to the MMS under 30 CFR parts 210 and 216.

(c) Submit production maps to the proper BLM office no later than 30 calendar days after the end of each royalty reporting period or on a schedule determined by the BLM. Show all excavations in each separate bed or deposit on the maps so that the production of minerals for any period can be accurately ascertained. Production maps must also show surface boundaries, lease boundaries, topography, and subsidence resulting from mining activities.

(d) If the lessee or operator does not provide the BLM the maps required by this section, the BLM will employ a licensed mine surveyor to make a survey and maps of the mine, and the cost will be charged to the operator or lessee.

(e) If the BLM believes any map submitted by an operator or lessee is incorrect, the BLM may have a survey performed, and if the survey shows the map submitted by the operator or lessee to be substantially incorrect in whole or in part, the cost of performing the survey and preparing the map will be charged to the operator or lessee.

(f) For in situ development operations, the lessee or operator must submit a map showing all surface installations, including pipelines, meter locations, or other points of measurement necessary for production verification as part of the POD. All maps must be modified as necessary for adequate representation of existing operations.

(g) Within 30 calendar days after well completion, the lessee or operator must submit to the proper BLM office 2 copies of a completed Form 3160-4, Well Completion or Recompletion Report and Log, limited to information that is applicable to oil shale operations. Well logs may be submitted electronically using a BLM-approved electronic format. Describe surface and bottom-hole locations in latitude and longitude.
