
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter D - Range Management (4000) <HED1>Group 4100 - Grazing Administration</HED1>
##### PART 4100 - GRAZING ADMINISTRATION - EXCLUSIVE OF ALASKA
###### Subpart 4110 - Qualifications and Preference
####### § 4110.2-3 Transfer of grazing preference.

(a) Transfers of grazing preference in whole or in part are subject to the following requirements:

(1) The transferee shall meet all qualifications and requirements of §§ 4110.1, 4110.2-1, and 4110.2-2.

(2) The transfer applications under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall evidence assignment of interest and obligation in range improvements authorized on public lands under § 4120.3 and maintained in conjunction with the transferred preference (see § 4120.3-5). The terms and conditions of the cooperative range improvement agreements and range improvement permits are binding on the transferee.

(3) The transferee shall accept the terms and conditions of the terminating grazing permit or lease (see § 4130.2) with such modifications as he may request which are approved by the authorized officer or with such modifications as may be required by the authorized officer.

(4) The transferee shall file an application for a grazing permit or lease to the extent of the transferred preference simultaneously with filing a transfer application under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(b) If base property is sold or leased, the transferee shall within 90 days of the date of sale or lease file with BLM a properly executed transfer application showing the base property and the grazing preference, in animal unit months, attached to that base property.

(c) If a grazing preference is being transferred from one base property to another base property, the transferor shall own or control the base property from which the grazing preference is being transferred and file with the authorized officer a properly completed transfer application for approval. No transfer will be allowed without the written consent of the owner(s), and any person or entity holding an encumbrance of the base property from which the transfer is to be made.

(d) At the date of approval of a transfer, the existing grazing permit or lease shall terminate automatically and without notice to the extent of the transfer.

(e) If an unqualified transferee acquires rights in base property through operation of law or testamentary disposition, such transfer will not affect the grazing preference or any outstanding grazing permit or lease, or preclude the issuance or renewal of a grazing permit or lease based on such property for a period of 2 years after the transfer. However, such a transferee shall qualify under paragraph (a) of this section within the 2-year period or the grazing preference shall be subject to cancellation. The authorized officer may grant extensions of the 2-year period where there are delays solely attributable to probate proceedings.

(f) Transfers shall be for a period of not less than 3 years unless a shorter term is determined by the authorized officer to be consistent with management and resource condition objectives.

(g) Failure of either the transferee or the transferor to comply with the regulations of this section may result in rejection of the transfer application or cancellation of grazing preference.
