
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Request for Review of Approval or Disapproval of Applications for New Permits, Permit Revisions, Permit Renewals, the Transfer, Assignment or Sale of Rights Granted Under Permit (Federal Program; Federal Lands Program; Federal Program for Indian Lands) and for Coal Exploration Permits (Federal Program)
###### ยง 4.1363 Contents of request; amendment of request; responses.

(a) The request for review shall include-

(1) A clear statement of the facts entitling the one requesting review to administrative relief;

(2) An explanation of each specific alleged error in OSMRE's decision, including reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions allegedly violated;

(3) A request for specific relief;

(4) A statement whether the person requests or waives the opportunity for an evidentiary hearing; and

(5) Any other relevant information.

(b) All interested parties shall file an answer or motion in response to a request for review, or a statement that no answer or motion will be filed, within 15 days of receipt of the request specifically admitting or denying facts or alleged errors stated in the request and setting forth any other matters to be considered on review.

(c) A request for review may be amended once as a matter of right prior to filing of an answer or motion or statement filed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Thereafter, a motion for leave to amend the request shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. An Administrative Law Judge may not grant a motion for leave to amend unless all parties agree to an extension of the date of commencement of the hearing under ยง 4.1364. A request for review may not be amended after a hearing commences.

(d) An interested party shall have 10 days from filing of a request for review that is amended as a matter of right or the time remaining for response to the original request, whichever is longer, to file an answer, motion, or statement in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. If the Administrative Law Judge grants a motion to amend a request for review, the time for an interested party to file an answer, motion, or statement shall be set forth in the order granting it.

(e) Failure of any party to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be regarded by an Administrative Law Judge as a waiver by that party of the right to commencement of a hearing within 30 days of the filing of a request for review if the Administrative Law Judge concludes that the failure was substantial and that another party was prejudiced as a result.
