
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter D - Range Management (4000) <HED1>Group 4100 - Grazing Administration</HED1>
##### PART 4100 - GRAZING ADMINISTRATION - EXCLUSIVE OF ALASKA
###### Subpart 4130 - Authorizing Grazing Use
####### ยง 4130.4 Authorization of temporary changes in grazing use within the terms and conditions of permits and leases, including temporary nonuse.

(a) The authorized officer may authorize temporary changes in grazing use within the terms and conditions of the permit or lease.

(b) For the purposes of this subpart, "temporary changes in grazing use within the terms and conditions of the permit or lease" means temporary changes in livestock number, period of use, or both, that would:

(1) Result in temporary nonuse; or

(2) Result in forage removal that-

(i) Does not exceed the amount of active use specified in the permit or lease; and

(ii) Occurs either not earlier than 14 days before the begin date specified on the permit or lease, and not later than 14 days after the end date specified on the permit or lease, unless otherwise specified in the appropriate allotment management plan under ยง 4120.2(a)(3); or

(3) Result in both temporary nonuse under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and forage removal under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(c) The authorized officer will consult, cooperate, and coordinate with the permittees or lessees regarding their applications for changes within the terms and conditions of their permit or lease.

(d) Permittees and lessees must apply if they wish-

(1) Not to use all or a part of their active use by applying for temporary nonuse under paragraph (e) of this section;

(2) To use forage previously authorized as temporary nonuse; or

(3) To use forage that is temporarily available on designated ephemeral or annual ranges.

(e)(1) Temporary nonuse is authorized-

(i) Only if the authorized officer approves in advance; and

(ii) For no longer than one year at a time.

(2) Permittees or lessees applying for temporary nonuse use must state on their application the reasons supporting nonuse. The authorized officer may authorize nonuse to provide for:

(i) Natural resource conservation, enhancement, or protection, including more rapid progress toward meeting resource condition objectives or attainment of rangeland health standards; or

(ii) The business or personal needs of the permittee or lessee.

(f) Under ยง 4130.6-2, the authorized officer may authorize qualified applicants to graze forage made available as a result of temporary nonuse approved for the reasons described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. The authorized officer will not authorize anyone to graze forage made available as a result of temporary nonuse approved under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(g) Permittees or lessees who wish to obtain temporary changes in grazing use within the terms and conditions of their permit or lease must file an application in writing with BLM on or before the date they wish the change in grazing use to begin. The authorized officer will assess a service charge under ยง 4130.8-3 to process applications for changes in grazing use that require the issuance of a replacement or supplemental billing notice.
