
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter D - Range Management (4000) <HED1>Group 4100 - Grazing Administration</HED1>
##### PART 4100 - GRAZING ADMINISTRATION - EXCLUSIVE OF ALASKA
###### Subpart 4150 - Unauthorized Grazing Use
####### ยง 4150.3 Settlement.

Where violations are repeated willful, the authorized officer shall take action under ยง 4170.1-1(b) of this title. The amount due for settlement shall include the value of forage consumed as determined in accordance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. Settlement for willful and repeated willful violations shall also include the full value for all damages to the public lands and other property of the United States; and all reasonable expenses incurred by the United States in detecting, investigating, resolving violations, and livestock impoundment costs.

(a) For nonwillful violations: The value of forage consumed as determined by the average monthly rate per AUM for pasturing livestock on privately owned land (excluding irrigated land) in each State as published annually by the Department of Agriculture. The authorized officer may approve nonmonetary settlement of unauthorized use only when the authorized officer determines that each of the following conditions is satisfied:

(1) Evidence shows that the unauthorized use occurred through no fault of the livestock operator;

(2) The forage use is insignificant;

(3) The public lands have not been damaged; and

(4) Nonmonetary settlement is in the best interest of the United States.

(b) For willful violations: Twice the value of forage consumed as determined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) For repeated willful violations: Three times the value of the forage consumed as determined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Payment made under this section does not relieve the alleged violator of any criminal liability under Federal or State law.

(e) Violators shall not be authorized to make grazing use on the public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management until any amount found to be due the United States under this section has been paid. The authorized officer may take action under subpart 4160 of this part to cancel or suspend grazing authorizations or to deny approval of applications for grazing use until such amounts have been paid.

(f) Upon a stay of a decision issued under paragraph (e) of this section, the authorized officer will allow a permittee or lessee to graze in accordance with this part 4100 pending completion of the administrative appeal process.
