
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Request for Review of Approval or Disapproval of Applications for New Permits, Permit Revisions, Permit Renewals, the Transfer, Assignment or Sale of Rights Granted Under Permit (Federal Program; Federal Lands Program; Federal Program for Indian Lands) and for Coal Exploration Permits (Federal Program)
###### ยง 4.1367 Request for temporary relief.

(a) Where review is requested pursuant to ยง 4.1362, any party may file a request for temporary relief at any time prior to a decision by an Administrative Law Judge, so long as the relief sought is not the issuance of a permit where a permit application has been disapproved in whole or in part.

(b) The request shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge to whom the case has been assigned. If no assignment has been made, the application shall be filed in the Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior.

(c) The application shall include-

(1) A detailed written statement setting forth the reasons why relief should be granted;

(2) A statement of the specific relief requested;

(3) A showing that there is a substantial likelihood that the person seeking relief will prevail on the merits of the final determination of the proceeding; and

(4) A showing that the relief sought will not adversely affect the public health or safety or cause significant, imminent environmental harm to land, air, or water resources.

(d) The Administrative Law Judge may hold a hearing on any issue raised by the application.

(e) The Administrative Law Judge shall issue expeditiously an order or decision granting or denying such temporary relief. Temporary relief may be granted only if-

(1) All parties to the proceeding have been notified and given an opportunity to be heard on a request for temporary relief;

(2) The person requesting such relief shows a substantial likelihood of prevailing on the merits of the final determination of the proceeding; and

(3) Such relief will not adversely affect the public health or safety or cause significant, imminent environmental harm to land, air, or water resources.

(f) Appeals of temporary relief decisions.

(1) Any party desiring to appeal the decision of the Administrative Law Judge granting or denying temporary relief may appeal to the Board, or, in the alternative, may seek judicial review pursuant to section 526(a), 30 U.S.C. 1276(a), of the Act.

(2) The Board shall issue an expedited briefing schedule and shall issue a decision on the appeal expeditiously.
