
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Review of OSM Decisions Proposing To Suspend or Rescind or Suspending or Rescinding Improvidently Issued Permits
###### ยง 4.1376 Petition for temporary relief from notice of proposed suspension or rescission or notice of suspension or rescission; appeals from decisions granting or denying temporary relief.

(a) Any party may file a petition for temporary relief from the notice of proposed suspension or rescission or the notice of suspension or rescission in conjunction with the filing of the request for review or at any time before an initial decision is issued by the administrative law judge.

(b) The petition for temporary relief shall be filed with the administrative law judge to whom the request for review has been assigned. If none has been assigned, the petition shall be filed with the Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior.

(c) The petition for temporary relief shall include:

(1) A statement of the specific relief requested;

(2) A detailed statement of why temporary relief should be granted, including-

(i) A showing that there is a substantial likelihood that petitioner will prevail on the merits, and

(ii) A showing that the relief sought will not adversely affect the public health or safety or cause significant, imminent environmental harm to land, air or water resources;

(3) A statement whether the petitioner requests an evidentiary hearing.

(d) Any party may file a response to the petition no later than 5 days after it was served and may request a hearing even if the petitioner has not done so.

(e) The administrative law judge may hold a hearing on any issue raised by the petition within 10 days of the filing of responses to the petition, and shall do so if a hearing is requested by any party.

(f) The administrative law judge shall issue an order or decision granting or denying the petition for temporary relief within 5 days of the date of a hearing on the petition or, if no hearing is held, of service of the responses to the petition on all parties.

(g) The administrative law judge may only grant temporary relief if:

(1) All parties to the proceeding have been notified of the petition and have had an opportunity to respond and a hearing has been held if requested;

(2) The petitioner has demonstrated a substantial likelihood of prevailing on the merits; and

(3) Temporary relief will not adversely affect public health or safety or cause significant, imminent harm to land, air or water resources.

(h) Any party may file an appeal of an order or decision granting or denying temporary relief with the Board within 30 days of receipt of the order or decision or, in the alternative, may seek judicial review within 30 days in accordance with section 526(a) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1276(a). If an appeal is filed with the Board, the Board shall issue an expedited briefing schedule and shall decide the appeal expeditiously.
