
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5400 - SALES OF FOREST PRODUCTS; GENERAL
###### Subpart 5400 - Sales of Forest Products; General
####### ยง 5400.0-7 Public hearings to determine surplus quantities and species of unprocessed timber.

(a) Public hearings will be held when authorized by the Director to seek advice and counsel as to the specific quantities of grades and species of unprocessed timber surplus to the needs of domestic users and processors. Such species and quantities thereby determined to be surplus by the Secretary, may be designated as available for export by the Secretary.

(b) Such hearings will be coordinated with the Department of Agriculture and held at convenient, centralized locations within the range of the species under consideration.

(c) Before any hearing is held in this regard, a notice will be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the range of the species under consideration at least 15 days prior to the hearing. In addition, known parties or groups with special interest in the species concerned should be notified directly. The record of the hearing shall be kept open for at least 5 consecutive calendar days from the date of the hearing for receipt of additional statements.

(d) The hearing will be conducted by a representative or representatives of the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, respectively. At the conclusion of the hearing, the record thereof together with appropriate recommendations shall be forwarded to the Director for further action deemed appropriate. The Director shall give the public due notice as to the quantities and species of unprocessed timber determined to be surplus to the needs of domestic users and processors.
