
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5440 - CONDUCT OF SALES
###### Subpart 5443 - 90-Day Sales
####### ยง 5443.1 General.

If no bid is received within the time specified in the advertisement of sale, and if the authorized officer determines that there has been no significant rise in the market value, he may in his discretion, keep the sale open for not to exceed 90 days by posting notice thereof in a conspicuous place in the office where bids are to be submitted. If during such period a written bid is submitted, together with the required deposit, for not less than the advertised appraised value, a notice of such bid shall be posted immediately after receipt of such bid for seven successive days in the same office and in the same manner. If no other written bid is received during the seven day posting period, the sole bidder shall be deemed the high bidder. If, however, during such seven day posting period other written bids are received, an oral auction shall be conducted in the usual manner for those who have submitted written bids. The authorized officer shall notify those who have submitted written bids of the time and place of the oral auction. The written bids shall be considered the initial bids in such oral auction. If there is a tie in the high written bids that are submitted during the seven day posting period and if no higher bid is offered during the oral auction, the party who first submitted the high bid shall be deemed the high bidder.
