
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5450 - AWARD OF CONTRACT
###### Subpart 5451 - Bonds
####### ยง 5451.4 Payment bond.

To obtain permission to (a) cut and remove timber, or (b) remove timber already cut, which has been secured by an increased performance bond as provided for in ยง 5451.2, before payment of the first or subsequent installments, the purchaser must obtain a payment bond in an amount equal to one or more installment payments as determined by the authorized officer. The payment bond may be a bond of a corporate surety shown on the approved list issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and executed on an approved form or negotiable securities of the United States. The payment bond may be a bond of a corporate surety shown on the approved list issued by the United States Treasury Department and executed on an approved form, negotiable securities of the United States, or any guaranteed remittance approved by the authorized officer. If a bond of a corporate surety is used, the payment bond shall provide that if the purchaser fails to make payment as required by ยง 5461.2(c) of this chapter, the surety will make such payment including any required interest to the Bureau within 60 days after demand therefor by the Bureau. With the written approval of the authorized officer a single blanket payment bond may be allocated to two or more contracts with the same purchaser in the same Bureau of Land Management administrative district. When operations cease for 60 days or more, the amount of a payment bond may be adjusted downward to an amount equal to the value of the timber cut. Before operations resume, a reduced bond shall be increased to the amount of a full installment.
