
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5460 - SALES ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart 5461 - Contract Payments
####### § 5461.2 Required payment schedule.

(a)(1) For sales of less than $500,000, installment payments shall not be less than 10 percent of the total purchase price. For sales of $500,000 or more, installment payments shall be $50,000.

(2) The first installment shall be paid prior to or at the time the authorized officer signs the contract. A purchaser cannot apply any portion of the first installment to cover other payments due on the contract until either 60 percent of the total purchase price has been paid or road construction required by the contract, the value of which when combined with contract payments is equal to 60 percent of the total purchase price, has been completed. When either of these 60-percent levels has been reached, one-half of the first installment may be applied to other payments due on the contract.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, when the contracting officer suspends or requests the purchaser to interrupt or delay operations during the operating season for a reason beyond the control of the purchaser, the contracting officer may reduce the amount of the first installment to 5 percent of the installment amount listed in the timber sale contract. Reductions may be made when the suspension, interruption, or delay can reasonably be expected to last longer than 30 days or has been in effect for more than 30 days for existing contracts. The purchaser shall request such reduction in writing from the contracting officer. The contracting officer will answer such requests within 15 days. The funds released may be refunded or credited to other contracts. When the contracting officer notifies the purchaser that operations may proceed, the purchaser shall have 15 days after such notification to return the first installment to the full amount specified in the timber sale contract. Failure to pay the full first installment amount within the specified time will be considered a material breach of contract, and the contracting officer may cancel the contract. No timber may be cut or removed from the contract area until the first installment is restored to the full amount required by the contract.

(4) The second installment shall be paid prior to the cutting or removal of the material sold. Each subsequent installment shall be due and payable without notice when the value of material cut or removed equals the sum of all payments made up to that point, not including the first installment, or one-half of the first installment after the other one-half of the first installment has been released as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(5) Timber sale contracts shall contain provisions requiring periodic payments for all sales with a contract term of 19 months or longer. For sales with a contract term of 19-26 months, one periodic payment of 20 percent of the total purchase price will be required. For all sales with a contract term of 27 months or longer, two periodic payments will be required. The first payment shall be 20 percent of the total purchase price and the second payment shall be 40 percent of the total purchase price. The value of satisfactorily completed road construction required by the contract and all completed contract payments may be used as a credit against the amount due for periodic payments. The due dates for the periodic payments will be specified in the timber sale contract. Adjustment of the periodic payment dates in the contract may be made when the contracting officer suspends, interrupts, or delays operations during the operating season prior to the due date for a periodic payment for a reason beyond the control of the purchaser. The adjustment may be made when the suspension, interruption, or delay can reasonably be expected to last longer than 30 days or has been in effect for more than 30 days for existing contracts. The purchaser shall request such adjustment in writing from the contracting officer. The contracting officer will answer such requests within 15 days.

(6) For the purpose of this section, the value of satisfactorily completed road construction shall be based on the Bureau of Land Management's appraisal allowance. Satisfactory completion of portions of the required road construction, to reasonable points that can be easily identified in the road construction appraisal, shall be considered as completed road construction for purposes of this section.

(b) Delayed payment of installments shall be allowed if the purchaser furnishes a bond as provided in § 5451.2 of this title. A deposit shall be paid in the same manner as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. If cutting is permitted before payment, as prescribed in § 5451.2 of this title, payment by installment shall be made before any timber may be skidded or yarded to a loading point or removed from the contract area. Each subsequent installment shall be due and payable without notice when the sale value of the timber skidded or yarded to a loading point or removed equals the sum of all payments not including the deposit. The unenhanced value of timber allowed to be cut in advance of payment shall be limited to the amount of the increase over and above the required performance bond. Upon payment, the amount of the bond may be applied to other timber sold under the contract to permit its cutting in advance of payment.

(c) Where cutting or removal is permitted under payment bond under § 5451.4 of this title, a deposit shall be paid as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. If cutting and/or removal is permitted before payment, as provided in § 5451.4 of this title, the purchaser shall be billed monthly for timber skidded or yarded to a loading point or removed from the contract area and for any related road maintenance fees unless a lesser period is agreed to by the authorized officer and the purchaser. Payment shall be made within 15 days of the billing date shown on the billing form. The unenhanced value of timber allowed to be cut and/or removed in advance of payment is limited to the amount of the payment bond. Upon payment, the amount of the bond may be applied to other timber.
