
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5460 - SALES ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart 5462 - Contract and Permit Requirements
####### ยง 5462.1 Contract and permit compliance.

(a) The following minimum requirements shall be met in order to assure contract or permit compliance:

(1) Contracts or permits shall be executed by authorized purchasers or their formally designated representatives.

(2) For other than lump sum sales, only the specific timber or other vegetative resource designated for removal, in their respective quantities, shall be removed.

(3) Timber or other vegetative resources shall be removed only from designated locations or areas.

(4) Transportation of timber or other vegetative resources shall be in accordance with contract or permit requirements and shall include appropriate load or product tagging if required.

(5) Contract or permit stipulations and specification shall be adhered to.

(6) Payments shall be made in accordance with subpart 5461 of this title.

(b) All contract and permit provisions and special provisions shall be adhered to unless the contract is modified in accordance with part 5470 of this title.

(c)(1) The authorized officer may cancel a contract or permit upon determining that the holder has failed to comply with a law or regulation pertinent to the contract or permit. The authorized officer may also cancel a contract or permit upon determining that the holder has failed to comply with a stipulation or requirement contained in the contract or permit and the noncompliance is detrimental to the public interest. Individual contracts or permits may contain specific language defining the remedies or penalties associated with noncompliance.

(2) Cancellation shall be mandatory in cases of intentional falsification of information used to obtain the permit or contract.
