
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter E - Forest Management (5000) <HED1>Group 5000 - Forest Management General</HED1>
##### PART 5460 - SALES ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart 5462 - Contract and Permit Requirements
####### ยง 5462.2 Prohibited acts.

(a) The acts or omissions listed in paragraph (b) of this section apply only to BLM-administered lands and will render the person(s) responsible liable to the United States in a civil action for trespass, and such person(s) may be prosecuted criminally. If the authorized officer determines such acts or omissions to be detrimental to the public interest, the timber sale contract or permit held by the purchaser responsible for such acts or omissions may be canceled.

(b) The following activities are prohibited:

(1) Cutting, removing, or otherwise damaging any timber, tree, or other vegetative resource, except as authorized by a forest product sale contract, permit, or Federal law or regulation.

(2) Cutting any standing tree, under a permit or timber sale contract, before a BLM employee has marked it or has otherwise designated it for cutting.

(3) Removing any timber or other vegetative resource cut under a permit or timber sale contract, except to a place designated for scaling or measurement, or removing it from that place before it is scaled, measured, counted, or otherwise accounted for by a BLM employee.

(4) Stamping, marking with paint, tagging, or otherwise identifying any tree or other vegetative resources on BLM-administered lands in a manner similar to that employed by BLM employees to mark or designate a tree or other vegetative resources for cutting, removal, or transportation.

(5) Transporting timber or other vegetative resources without a valid haul ticket that pertains to the material in question, except as authorized by Federal law or regulation.

(6) Except as authorized by Federal law or regulation, purchasers or their designated representatives, while engaging in any activity connected with the harvest or removal of forest products, failing to have in their possession and/or failing to produce any required permit or forest product sale contract for inspection upon demand by a BLM employee or any official of a cooperating law enforcement agency acting within his or her designated authority as a sale inspector, administrator, contracting officer, or law enforcement officer.

(7) Violating any State or local laws and ordinances relating to local permits, tagging, and transportation of timber, trees, or other vegetative resources.

(8) Violating any of the provisions regulating export and substitution contained in subparts 5400, 5403, and 5420 of this title.

(9) Obtaining any forest product sale contract or permit or taking any timber, trees, or other vegetative resources through falsifying, concealing, or covering up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or making any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or making or using a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, including altering any forest product sales contract or permit or using an unauthorized reproduction of any official load tag.

(10) Negligent or intentional destruction of or injury to any timber or other vegetative resource during operations under a forest product sale contract or permit.
