
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 4 - DEPARTMENT HEARINGS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Special Rules Applicable to Surface Coal Mining Hearings and Appeals
##### Request for Review of OSM Determinations of Issues Under 30 CFR Part 761 (Federal Program; Federal Lands Program; Federal Program for Indian Lands)
###### ยง 4.1391 Who may file; where to file; when to file; filing of administrative record.

(a) The person who requested a determination under 30 CFR 761.16 or any person with an interest that is or may be adversely affected by a determination that a person does or does not have valid existing rights may file a request for review of the determination with the office of the OSM official whose determination is being reviewed and at the same time shall send a copy of the request to the Interior Board of Land Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior. OSM shall file the complete administrative record of the determination under review with the Board as soon as practicable.

(b) OSM must provide notice of the valid existing rights determination to the person who requested that determination by certified mail, or by overnight delivery service if the person has agreed to bear the expense of this service.

(1) When the determination is made independently of a decision on an application for a permit or for a permit boundary revision, a request for review shall be filed within 30 days of receipt of the determination by a person who has received a copy of it by certified mail or overnight delivery service. The request for review shall be filed within 30 days of the date of publication of the determination in a newspaper of general circulation or in thewhichever is later, by any person who has not received a copy of it by certified mail or overnight delivery service.

(2) When the determination is made in conjunction with a decision on an application for a permit or for a permit boundary revision, the request for review must be filed in accordance with ยง 4.1362.

(c) Failure to file a request for review within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to review and the request shall be dismissed.
