
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter H - Recreation Programs <HED1>Group 8100 - Cultural Resource Management [Reserved] </HED1> <HED1>Group 8200 - Natural History Resource Management</HED1>
##### PART 8340 - OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
###### Subpart 8341 - Conditions of Use
####### ยง 8341.1 Regulations governing use.

(a) The operation of off-road vehicles is permitted on those areas and trails designated as open to off-road vehicle use.

(b) Any person operating an off-road vehicle on those areas and trails designated as limited shall conform to all terms and conditions of the applicable designation orders.

(c) The operation of off-road vehicles is prohibited on those areas and trails closed to off-road vehicle use.

(d) It is prohibited to operate an off-road vehicle in violation of State laws and regulations relating to use, standards, registration, operation, and inspection of off-road vehicles. To the extent that State laws and regulations do not exist or are less stringent than the regulations in this part, the regulations in this part are minimum standards and are controlling.

(e) No person may operate an off-road vehicle on public lands without a valid State operator's license or learner's permit where required by State or Federal law.

(f) No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on public lands:

(1) In a reckless, careless, or negligent manner;

(2) In excess of established speed limits;

(3) While under the influence of alcohol, narcotics, or dangerous drugs;

(4) In a manner causing, or likely to cause significant, undue damage to or disturbance of the soil, wildlife, wildlife habitat, improvements, cultural, or vegetative resources or other authorized uses of the public lands; and

(5) During night hours, from a half-hour after sunset to a half-hour before sunrise, without lighted headlights and taillights.

(g) Drivers of off-road vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians, saddle horses, pack trains, and animal-drawn vehicles.

(h) Any person who operates an off-road vehicle on public lands must comply with the regulations in this part, and in ยง 8341.2 as applicable, while operating such vehicle on public lands.
