
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9180 - CADASTRAL SURVEY
###### Subpart 9180 - Cadastral Surveys; General
####### ยง 9180.0-3 Authority.
######## Delegation to Director, Bureau of Land Management.

(a)(1) In the establishment of the Bureau of Land Management by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1946, the office of Supervisor of Surveys was abolished and the functions and powers thereof were transferred to the Secretary of the Interior, to be performed by such officers or agencies of the Department as might be designated by the Secretary. Under that authority, the functions and powers formerly exercised by the Supervisor of Surveys were delegated to the Chief Cadastral Engineer, subject to the supervision of the Director, Bureau of Land Management. In the general reorganization and realignment of functions of the Bureau, the office of Chief Cadastral Engineer has been abolished, and the functions of that office have been delegated to the Director.

(2) By this sequence, the cadastral surveying work of the Bureau of Land Management has been placed under the immediate jurisdiction of the Director, subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of the Interior. Certain functions relating to specific phases of the cadastral surveying work have been delegated to the State Director.
