
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9180 - CADASTRAL SURVEY
###### Subpart 9180 - Cadastral Surveys; General
####### ยง 9180.0-3 Authority.
######## Alaska.

(b)The rectangular system of survey of the public lands was extended to the State of Alaska by the Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1098; 48 U.S.C. 351). The regular township surveys in Alaska conform to that system, but departures therefrom are permitted under the conditions stated in the Act of April 13, 1926 (44 Stat. 243; 48 U.S.C. 379), and in certain other cases, such as special surveys for trade and manufacturing sites, headquarters sites, and homesites under section 10 of the Act of May 14, 1898 (30 Stat. 413; 48 U.S.C. 461), as amended; for soldiers additional entries, pursuant to sections 2306 and 2307 of the Revised Statutes (43 U.S.C. 274, 278); and for small tracts under the Act of June 1, 1938 (52 Stat. 609; 43 U.S.C. 682a), as amended.

(1) Administration of the public land surveying activities in Alaska is under the general supervision of the State Director, Bureau of Land Management, at Anchorage, Alaska. The office, in which the records relating to the public land surveys in the State are maintained, is located at Anchorage, Alaska. Correspondence relating to local survey matters should be addressed to the State Director, Juneau, Alaska.
