
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9180 - CADASTRAL SURVEY
###### Subpart 9180 - Cadastral Surveys; General
####### ยง 9180.0-3 Authority.
######## Cost to be prorated between applicants and United States, when more than 50 percent of the area is privately owned.

(2)(i) The Act of September 21, 1918 (40 Stat. 965; 43 U.S.C. 773), provides authority for the resurvey by the Government of townships heretofore held to be ineligible for resurvey under existing departmental regulations by reason of disposals in excess of 50 percent of the total area thereof.

(ii) Under the Act mentioned, and upon the application of the owners of three-fourths of the privately owned lands in any township previously surveyed, or upon the application of a court of competent jurisdiction, accompanied by a deposit of funds sufficient to cover the estimated cost, inclusive of the necessary office work, of the resurvey of all of the privately owned lands in such township, the State Director, Bureau of Land Management, is authorized, in his discretion, to cause to be made a resurvey of the township in question in accordance with the laws and regulations governing surveys and resurveys of the public lands; the cost of the resurvey of the residue of the public lands in such township to be paid by the Government from the current annual appropriation for the survey and resurvey of the public lands in addition to the portion thereof made available for resurveys and retracements by the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1909 (35 Stat. 845), as amended by Joint Resolution of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 884; 43 U.S.C. 772). The total cost of the resurvey of the township is thus divided between the Government and the petitioners in proportion to the extent of their respective holdings.

(iii) It is further provided that any portion of such deposit in excess of the actual cost of the field and office work incident to such resurvey of privately owned lands shall be repaid pro rata to the applicants for resurvey or to their legal representatives.
