
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9180 - CADASTRAL SURVEY
###### Subpart 9185 - Instructions and Methods
####### ยง 9185.2-3 Unsurveyed islands and omitted lands.

(a) Section 211(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2758), provides for the conveyance under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act of unsurveyed islands determined by the Secretary to be public lands of the United States. The conveyance of any such island may be made without survey; however, such island shall be surveyed at the request of the qualified applicant. If the applicant requests that a survey be executed, the applicant shall be required to:

(1) Furnish a written statement identifying his choice of donation of money, services, or both for the survey.

(2) If the applicant elects to donate money, such donation shall equal the Bureau of Land Management's estimated cost of survey. The donated money shall be credited and expended in accordance with section 307(c) of the Act. A written estimate of such costs shall be furnished to the applicant by the Bureau.

(3) If the applicant elects to donate services, such services shall be conducted and performed pursuant to the criteria established by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(b) Section 211(b) of the Act, provides for conveyance, under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869), of lands other than islands determined by the Secretary by survey to be public lands of the United States erroneously or fraudulently omitted from the original surveys. An applicant may be required to donate money, services, or a combination thereof for such survey. The procedures contained in ยง 9185.2-3(a) of this title shall be followed.
