
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9230 - TRESPASS
###### Subpart 9239 - Kinds of Trespass
####### ยง 9239.2-1 Enclosures of public lands in specified cases declared unlawful.

(a) Section 1 of the Act of February 25, 1885 (23 Stat. 321; 43 U.S.C. 1061), declares any enclosure of public lands made or maintained by any party, association, or corporation who "had no claim or color of title made or acquired in good faith, or an asserted right thereto, by or under claim, made in good faith with a view to entry thereof at the proper land office under the general laws of the United States at the time any such enclosure was or shall be made" to be unlawful and prohibits the maintenance of erection thereof.

(b) Section 4 of the Taylor Grazing Act of June 28, 1934 (48 Stat. 1271; 43 U.S.C. 315o) provides:

(c) Section 10, paragraph (4) of the Federal Range Code, ยง 4112.3 of this chapter, containing rules for the administration of grazing districts prohibits "Constructing or maintaining any kind of improvements, structures, fences, or enclosures on the Federal range, including stock driveways, without authority of law or a permit."

(d) Section 2 of the Taylor Grazing Act of June 28, 1934 (48 Stat. 1270; 43 U.S.C. 315a), provides that "any willful violation of the provisions of this act" or of "rules and regulations thereunder after actual notice thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500."

(e) Violations of any of the provisions of the Act of February 25, 1885, constitute a misdemeanor (Sec. 4, 23 Stat. 322; 35 Stat. 40; 43 U.S.C. 1064).
