
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9230 - TRESPASS
###### Subpart 9239 - Kinds of Trespass
####### ยง 9239.3 Grazing, Alaska.
######## Livestock.

(b)(1) Grazing livestock upon, allowing livestock to drift and graze on, or driving livestock across lands that are subject to lease or permit under the provisions of this part or within a stock driveway, without a lease or other authorization from the Bureau of Land Management, is prohibited and constitutes trespass. Trespassers will be liable in damages to the United States for the forage consumed and for injury to Federal property, and may be subject to civil and criminal prosecution for such unlawful acts. A lessee who grazes livestock in violation of the terms and conditions of his lease by exceeding numbers specified, or by allowing the livestock to be on Federal land in an area or at a time different from that designated in his lease shall be in default and shall be subject to the provisions of ยง 4131.2-7 (g) and (h) of this chapter. Under section 2 of the Act, any person who willfully grazes livestock on public lands without authority, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.

(2) Whenever it appears that a violation exists the authorized officer shall serve written notice upon the alleged violator. The notice shall set forth the act or omission constituting such violation and will allow the party involved a reasonable specified time from receipt of notice to demonstrate that there has been no violation or that he has since achieved compliance. If the showing is satisfactory to the authorized officer he will close the case. If satisfactory showing is not made within the time allowed, the violation alleged in the notice will be deemed to have been willful.
