
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9230 - TRESPASS
###### Subpart 9239 - Kinds of Trespass
####### ยง 9239.3 Grazing, Alaska.
######## et seq.

(3) Where the owner of the trespassing livestock, or his representative, is known, the authorized officer shall determine the amount of the damage to the public land and other property of the United States and shall make a demand for payment upon the alleged violator setting forth the foregoing values including the value of the forage consumed. Such forage value shall be computed at the commercial rates, if susceptible to proof by reasonably available and reliable data; otherwise, a minimum charge of $2 per animal unit month for trespass not clearly willful will be made. Where the trespasses are repeated and/or willful, a minimum charge of $4 per animal unit month for forage consumed will be charged. All offers for settlement for value of forage consumed and for damage to the public land or to other property of the United States resulting from an alleged violation of any provision of the act or regulations found within ยง 4131.0-3of this chapter in the amount of $2,000 or less may be accepted by the authorized officer. Offers for settlement in excess of $2,000 will be transmitted to the State Director for appropriate action. An offer of settlement will not constitute satisfaction of civil liability for consumed forage and damage involved until finally accepted by the authorized officer or the State Director, and in no event will it relieve the violator of criminal liability. No lease or permit will be issued or renewed until payment of any amount found to be due the United States under this section has been offered.
