
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9260 - LAW ENFORCEMENT - CRIMINAL
###### Subpart 9268 - Recreation Programs
####### ยง 9268.3 Recreation management - procedures.
######## Conditions of use-regulations governing use.

(2)(i) The operation of off-road vehicles is permitted on those areas and trails designated as open to off-road vehicle use.

(ii) Any person operating an off-road vehicle on those areas and trails designated as limited shall conform to all terms and conditions of the applicable designation orders.

(iii) The operation of off-road vehicles is prohibited on those areas and trails closed to off-road vehicle use.

(iv) It is prohibited to operate an off-road vehicle in violation of State laws and regulations relating to use, standards, registration, operation, and inspection of off-road vehicles. To the extent that State laws and regulations do not exist or are less stringent than the regulations in part 8340 of this title, the regulations in this part are minimum standards and are controlling.

(v) No person may operate an off-road vehicle on public lands without a valid State operator's license or learner's permit. Exceptions are:

(A) A person under the direct supervision of an individual 18 years of age or older who has a valid operator's license and who is responsible for the acts of the person supervised.

(B) A person certified by State government as competent to drive off-road vehicles after successfully completing a State approved operator's training program.

(C) Operation of an off-road vehicle in areas of Alaska designated by the Bureau's State Director for Alaska.

(vi) Any person supervising a nonlicensed driver shall be responsible for the operation of the vehicle and shall be responsible for the actions of the driver.

(vii) No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on public lands:

(A) In a reckless, careless, or negligent manner;

(B) In excess of established speed limits;

(C) While under the influence of alcohol, narcotics, or dangerous drugs;

(D) In a manner causing, or likely to cause significant, undue damage to or disturbance of the soil, wildlife, wildlife habitat, improvements, cultural, or vegetative resources or other authorized uses of the public lands; and

(E) During night hours, from a half-hour after sunset to a half-hour before sunrise, without lighted headlights and taillights.

(viii) Drivers of off-road vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians, saddle horses, pack trains, and animal-drawn vehicles.

(ix) Any person who operates an off-road vehicle on public lands must comply with the regulations in part 8340 and ยง 8341.2 of this title as applicable, while operating such vehicle on public lands.
