
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter II - Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior
#### Subchapter I - Technical Services (9000) <HED1>Group 9100 - Engineering</HED1>
##### PART 9260 - LAW ENFORCEMENT - CRIMINAL
###### Subpart 9268 - Recreation Programs
####### ยง 9268.3 Recreation management - procedures.
######## Penalties.

(2)(i) Section 303(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1733) provides: any person who knowingly and willfully violates any such regulation which is lawfully issued under this Act shall be fined no more than $1,000 or imprisoned no more than twelve months, or both. Any person charged with a violation of such regulation may be tried and sentenced by any United States magistrate designated for that purpose by the court by which he was appointed, in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as provided for in section 3401 of Title 18 of the United States Code.

(ii) Section 2, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1964 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a), provides that any person violating the rules and regulations issued under section 4601-6e of title 16 U.S.C. shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100.

(iii) Section 204(a) of the Sikes Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 670g-n), provides that:

(A) Any person who hunts, traps, or fishes on any public land which is subject to a conservation and rehabilitation program implemented under this Act without having on his person a valid public land management area stamp, if the possession of such a stamp is required, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 6 months, or both.

(B) Any person who knowingly violates or fails to comply with any regulations prescribed under section 670h(c)(5) of title 16 U.S.C. shall be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.

(iv) Section 7 of the National Trails Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. 1241-1249), provides: Any person who violates such regulations issued under section 1246 (i) of title 16 U.S.C., and deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Interior, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding 6 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
