
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.10 Relationship of the plan to the authorities and responsibilities of other agencies.
###### Agencies with Federal reclamation project mitigation responsibilities and/or authorities.

(b)Several agencies also have direct authorities and responsibilities relating to mitigation for the effects of Federal reclamation projects in Utah. These include the Department of the Interior Central Utah Project Office, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources. The remainder of this section summarizes the authorities and responsibilities of these agencies with regards to Federal reclamation projects, with emphasis on the Commission's relationship to these agencies. This section does not identify or describe all of the potential relationships between the Commission and other agencies with Federal reclamation project mitigation obligations. As appropriate, the Commission may enter into formal agreements with any or all of the above agencies in order to provide additional detail regarding the relationship or to assign specific program or project responsibilities. The arrangements that are described in this section may also be modified through interagency agreement.
