
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.10 Relationship of the plan to the authorities and responsibilities of other agencies.
###### Secretary of the Interior's Representative to the Central Utah Project.

(1)As required by Section 201(e) of the Act, the Secretary of the Interior is ultimately responsible for carrying out all responsibilities specifically identified in the Act. The Secretary's Representative serves as the Secretary's official representative to the Central Utah Project. The Secretary's Representative monitors activities undertaken in fulfillment of the various aspects of the Act to ensure that these activities, including mitigation activities, are in accordance with applicable law and that Federal funds are used appropriately. The Secretary's Representative also coordinates activities among Department of the Interior agencies involved with the Central Utah Project. The Commission is a Federal Commission within the executive branch of government and its activities are subject to the direct oversight of Congress. While essentially independent of the Secretary of the Interior, the Commission nevertheless has a vital relationship with the Department via both the budget process and the similarity in missions. The Secretary's Representative serves as the principal link between the Commission and the Department of the Interior and is responsible for transmitting Congressional appropriations to fund the Commission's mitigation, conservation, and administrative activities. For purposes of plan development and implementation, the following will guide the Commission's relationship to the Secretary's Representative:

(i) The Commission acknowledges the authority of the Secretary in overseeing implementation of the Act and recognizes that the Secretary's Representative plays an essential role in ensuring the compatibility of mitigation and conservation measures with the overall Central Utah Project. The Commission is committed to a strong and productive partnership with the Secretary's Representative in fulfilling the Commission's mitigation and conservation responsibilities.

(ii) The Commission will maintain close communication with the Secretary's Representative regarding the relationship between the plan and Congressional appropriations. The Commission will provide the Secretary's Representative with both long range and annual funding proposals and otherwise assist in preparing the Commission's budget requests to Congress.

(iii) The Commission and the Secretary's Representative will independently and cooperatively monitor the plan in terms of meeting Section 8 mitigation obligations as directed by the Act.

(iv) The Commission will actively involve the Secretary's Representative in the Commission's NEPA related activities, including the identification of appropriate roles for the Secretary's Representative and Department of the Interior agencies in the preparation and review of NEPA documents.

(v) The Commission will, as appropriate, involve the Secretary's Representative in coordinating Commission mitigation and conservation activities with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and with individual Indian tribes.

(vi) The Commission will utilize the Secretary's Representative as its principal contact for matters regarding the Department of the Interior and, when appropriate, will seek assistance from the Secretary's Representative in coordinating activities involving agencies within the Department, especially when activities involve several agencies. The Commission will, as appropriate, involve the Secretary's Representative in resolving differences that might arise among the various agencies within the Department with regard to the Commission's plan, or the implementation of any measure contained in the plan. This provision does not alter the direct working relationships that the Commission maintains with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Bureau of Land Management, and other applicable agencies.
