
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.10 Relationship of the plan to the authorities and responsibilities of other agencies.
###### Central Utah Water Conservancy District.

(3)The Central Utah Water Conservancy District (District) is responsible for construction, operation, and management of the various features of the Central Utah Project. NEPA compliance regarding many of these features has resulted in the identification of several measures that are to be undertaken as mitigation for the Central Utah Project's impacts to fish, wildlife, and/or recreation. NEPA compliance for future project features is likely to identify additional fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation and conservation measures. The Act directs that the Commission give funding priority to measures that result from applicable NEPA procedures. The Act does not, however, specify what role the Commission is to have in determining, or planning for, these measures. For purposes of plan development and implementation, the following will guide the Commission's relationship to the District:

(i) The Commission is committed to maintaining a strong and productive partnership with the District in order to adequately plan for and implement mitigation measures associated with the Central Utah Project.

(ii) The Commission recognizes that the District and the Commission have complementary responsibilities for fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation regarding the Central Utah Project. The District retains the overall responsibility for planning for mitigation activities associated with its completion of the Central Utah Project. The Commission has the responsibility for ensuring that mitigation measures meet with the intent of the Act with regard to protection and restoration of fish, wildlife, and recreation resources and for approving and implementing mitigation and conservation measures. Accordingly, the Commission will monitor District mitigation and conservation planning activities and provide such assistance as is mutually agreed upon.

(iii) The Commission will actively monitor or, as appropriate, participate in NEPA procedures undertaken by the District that may result in the identification of mitigation and conservation measures that, if implemented, would require Commission funding or may affect other mitigation activities of interest to the Commission. For NEPA procedures that are likely to result in significant Commission obligations, the Commission may request "joint lead agency" status with the District. In such instances the specific involvement of the Commission in the preparation of NEPA documentation will be determined through agreement with the District.

(iv) The District retains responsibility for mitigating future impacts to fish, wildlife, and recreation caused by the operation, maintenance, and replacement of its water resource development facilities, unless that responsibility has been specifically transferred to the Commission or other entity.

(v) The District retains responsibility for operation, maintenance, and, where necessary, replacement of fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation features managed by the District, unless that responsibility has been specifically transferred to the Commission or other entity.
