
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.10 Relationship of the plan to the authorities and responsibilities of other agencies.
###### U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.,et seq.

(4)The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) has mandated responsibility to implement several acts relevant to the Commission's activities. In Section 301(b)(3), the Act specifically references a Commission obligation to comply with the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (FWCA) and the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Other acts administered by the Service and relevant to Commission activities include, but are not necessarily limited to, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703) and the Bald Eagle Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 668-668d). The FWCA directs that the Service, and the state fish and wildlife agency, must be consulted where the "waters of any stream or other body of water are proposed or authorized to be impounded, diverted * * * or otherwise controlled or modified * * * by any department or agency of the United States, or by any public or private agency under Federal permit or license. * * *" The purpose of this consultation is to provide for "the conservation of wildlife resources by preventing loss of and damage to such resources." The FWCA provides the major mechanism for Service involvement in the Federal reclamation project decision process. The Service's most important role in Federal reclamation projects is in the development and later the monitoring of fish and wildlife mitigation measures. The Service is also responsible for reporting to the Secretary of the Interior on the status of mitigation programs. The Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act provides for the funding of Service FWCA consultation by the agency sponsoring the proposed activity. The Service's ESA responsibilities that are most relevant to Commission activities include listing of new species, preparation and implementation of recovery plans and consultations regarding adverse effects on listed species. Section 7(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act authorizes Federal agencies to carry out programs for the conservation of endangered and threatened species. Participating in, and being consistent with, recovery plans is a fundamental component of this obligation. Section 7(a)(2) of the ESA requires that, prior to taking any action that may affect a listed species, a Federal agency must consult with the Service to ensure that the action will not jeopardize the continued existence of the species or adversely modify critical habitat. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) establishes a Federal role in protecting bird species that generally migrate across national boundaries. In Utah, these include most indigenous bird species. The MBTA is not intended as a substitute for state wildlife management authority but rather as a complement. The Service is responsible for implementing many of the features of the MBTA, and for encouraging states to undertake actions to protect migratory bird species. The Bald Eagle Protection Act prohibits the taking or possession of either bald or golden eagles, both of which commonly inhabit areas near Utah's rivers and wetlands. For purposes of plan development and implementation, the following will guide the Commission's relationship to the Service:

(i) The Commission acknowledges the biological expertise of the Service with regard to Federal reclamation projects and other Commission activities relating to the protection and restoration of fish and wildlife resources and will seek to utilize this expertise to the fullest extent. The Commission further recognizes the similarity in agency missions with regard to fish and wildlife mitigation and conservation and is committed to a strong and productive partnership with the Service in this regard.

(ii) The Commission acknowledges the Service's mandated responsibility with regard to Federal reclamation projects and will specifically consult with the Service regarding activities that are subject to the FWCA. These include both projects directly related to mitigation for Federal water resource projects and applicable fish, wildlife, and recreation conservation projects. In developing its plan and adopting specific projects, the Commission will give significant weight to the Service's recommendations. Should the Commission choose to not follow Service recommendations, it will seek resolution through active consultation with the Service. As appropriate, the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources will be asked to be involved in these consultations as that agency also has co-responsibilities under the FWCA. Should no agreement be reached, the Commission will document its decision and provide this to the Service. The Commission recognizes that the Service has a responsibility to forward its FWCA reports to the Secretary regardless of the resolution of issues contained in the reports. The Commission recognizes that several projects contained in Title II, Section 304, and Section 315 have previously been subjected to Service evaluation pursuant to FWCA. Prior to reallocating funds authorized for these projects, the Commission will formally consult with the Service regarding the relative adequacy of proposed new projects, or significant modifications to Title II, Section 304, or Section 315 projects, in mitigating for impacts to fish and wildlife resources.

(iii) The Commission will comply with applicable provisions of the ESA and, accordingly, will consult with the Service regarding activities that may affect a listed or candidate species, regardless whether the effect is beneficial or adverse. In addition, the Commission will endeavor to undertake mitigation and conservation projects that are consistent with an adopted recovery plan for a listed species and that aid in the protection of candidate species.

(iv) The Commission will, in accordance with the Act, formally seek the Service's approval prior to reallocating funds from a project whose primary objectives are the protection and/or restoration of fish and wildlife resources to a project whose objectives are primarily related to recreation. No such funds will be reallocated unless this meets with the approval of the Service.

(v) The Commission anticipates that the Service will be an active participant in the planning for, and implementation, of mitigation and conservation projects undertaken pursuant to the Commission's plan.

(vi) The Commission will invite the Service to participate in NEPA activities undertaken or funded by the Commission that bear on fish and/or wildlife resources. The form that this participation will take will be determined on a case-by-case basis and will require agreement on the part of both agencies.
