
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.10 Relationship of the plan to the authorities and responsibilities of other agencies.
###### Utah Division of Wildlife Resources.

(5)As is the case with other states, the State of Utah has the exclusive jurisdiction over non-migratory fish and wildlife and shared jurisdiction (with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) over all migratory birds and Federally listed threatened and endangered fish and wildlife within the state. The applicable state law is Utah Code, Section 23-15-2, which states that "All wildlife within the state, including but not limited to wildlife on public or private lands or in public or private waters within the state, shall fall within the jurisdiction of the Division of Wildlife Resources." The Utah Division of Wildlife Resources (UDWR) has authorities and responsibilities at the state level similar to those of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service at the Federal level, and, like the Service, has mandated authorities under the Federal Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act that relate directly to Federal Reclamation project mitigation. These authorities are described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. In addition, the Act provides for the UDWR to assume primary responsibility for implementing measures associated with the Act after the Commission expires. In addition to the UDWR's responsibilities and authorities discussed above, the State of Utah also has jurisdiction over other activities that are relevant to the Commission's plan, including the granting of water rights and, except on Federal and tribal lands, management of land use. For purposes of plan development and implementation, the following will guide the Commission's relationship to the UDWR:

(i) The Commission acknowledges the biological expertise of the UDWR with regard to Federal reclamation projects and other Commission activities relating to the protection and restoration of fish and wildlife resources and will seek to utilize this expertise to the fullest extent practicable. The Commission further recognizes the similarity in agency missions with regard to fish and wildlife mitigation and conservation and is committed to a strong and productive partnership with the UDWR in this regard.

(ii) The Commission acknowledges the UDWR's authority over the management of fish and wildlife within the State and will take no action that is inconsistent with this authority.

(iii) The Commission acknowledges that the UDWR has a mandated authority regarding the planning and monitoring of Federal reclamation mitigation. As is the case with the Service, the Commission will formally consult with the UDWR regarding projects that are subject to the FWCA. These include both projects directly related to mitigation for Federal reclamation projects and applicable fish and wildlife conservation projects not directly related to any Federal reclamation project. Consultation will be in accordance with procedures defined in the FWCA. It is anticipated that this consultation will be conducted in conjunction with the Service. However, the Commission recognizes that the UDWR has the right to prepare recommendations independent of the Service should it so desire. The Commission will, in making its decisions, give significant weight to recommendations made by the UDWR. Should the Commission choose to not follow the UDWR's recommendations, it will seek to resolve outstanding issues through active consultation with the UDWR. As appropriate, the Service will be asked to be involved in these consultations. Should no agreement be reached, the Commission will document its decision and provide this to the UDWR. The Commission recognizes that several mitigation projects contained in Title II, Section 304, and Section 315 have previously been subjected to the UDWR evaluation pursuant to FWCA. As is the case with the Service, the Commission will specifically consult with the UDWR prior to significantly modifying or reallocating funds away from these projects.

(iv) The Commission will specifically consult with the UDWR regarding any project that might have an affect on species identified by the UDWR as wildlife species of special concern and species listed by the UDWR Natural Heritage Program as G1 and G2 plant and animal species.

(v) The Commission anticipates that the UDWR will be an active participant in the planning for, and implementation, of mitigation and conservation projects undertaken pursuant to the Commission's plan.

(vi) The Commission will invite the UDWR to participate in NEPA activities undertaken or funded by the Commission that bear on fish and/or wildlife resources. The form that this participation will take will be determined on a case-by-case basis and will require agreement on the part of both agencies.
