
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.14 Resource features applicable to the plan.

In accordance with the Act, projects selected for funding must make substantial contributions to fish, wildlife and/or recreation resources. Biological projects may focus on the protection or restoration of an individual species, a group of inter-related species, or the habitats upon which these species depend. Projects that target sensitive plant species may also be included in the plan, particularly if they contribute to the overall health of the ecosystem. Recreation projects should be targeted at increasing the quality of and/or access to outdoor recreation opportunities that rely on the natural environment or at providing opportunities that have been reduced through Federal reclamation projects. Following is a representative list of the types of resources that projects may target, along with examples of possible activities that might be undertaken for each. The following list is not intended to limit the scope of projects that may qualify for inclusion in the Commission's plan:

(a) Fish and Wildlife Production, including:

(1) Enhancement of natural production,

(2) Restoration of indigenous species,

(3) Scientific studies,

(4) Development of new or upgraded culture facilities.

(b) Plant Propagation, including:

(1) Protection of critical habitat for sensitive species or communities,

(2) Reintroduction of native plants in conjunction with habitat restoration projects,

(3) Vegetation manipulation to achieve desired ecological conditions.

(c) Stream Habitat, including:

(1) Protection or enhancement of instream flow,

(2) Restoration of natural flow regimes,

(3) Improvement to water quality,

(4) Restoration of natural channel, bank, and riparian conditions,

(5) Restoration of natural instream and bank cover conditions.

(d) Lake Habitat, including:

(1) Stabilization of water level,

(2) Water quality protection or improvement,

(3) Restoration of natural lakebed conditions,

(4) Riparian area maintenance,

(5) Outlet flow maintenance.

(e) Wetlands Habitat, including:

(1) Protection of existing wetlands,

(2) Restoration of drained or otherwise degraded wetlands,

(3) Enhancement of wetland habitat.

(f) Upland Habitat, including:

(1) Protection or restoration of migration corridors,

(2) Re-connection of fragmented habitats,

(3) Protection of critical habitats,

(4) Habitat condition improvement.

(g) Outdoor Recreation, including:

(1) Establishment of fishing and boating access,

(2) Establishment of greenways and low impact trails,

(3) Providing opportunities for wildlife related recreation, including hunting and observation,

(4) Providing opportunities for passive recreation and sightseeing,

(5) Stocking waters with fish (where not incompatible with biological objectives),

(6) Education and interpretation related to fish, wildlife, and their habitats.
