
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.21 Amending the plan.
###### Substantive revision.

(2)The Commission may, from time to time, determine that changes to the plan's list of projects are in order. Typically this will take the form of substituting a project in the plan with a new project, changing the order for implementation, or making significant modifications to previously selected projects. When the Commission determines that there is a need for such substantive changes, a formal announcement will be made and interested parties will be given the opportunity to provide recommendations following the procedures described in ยง 10005.18. Changes of this nature will not necessitate a total revision to the plan but rather involve select modifications to specific portions of the plan. Changes to other specific elements of the plan may also be amended in this way. Portions of the plan that are proposed for modification will be released in draft form, with the public given thirty days to provide comments prior to formal adoption by the Commission. Substantive amendments provide a way to incrementally amend the plan over time without the necessity of a major rewrite and will be central to the Commission's planning process. The Commission will specifically consider the need for substantive amendments on at least an annual basis. Consideration of substantive amendments will typically be made in concert with preparation of the annual budget request.
