
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10005 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING THE COMMISSION'S MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION PLAN
##### ยง 10005.21 Amending the plan.
###### Public petitions.

(b)Agencies and members of the public have the right to, at any time, petition the Commission to open the plan to comprehensive or substantive amendments. Petitions must be made in writing and should state the specific reason why the action is requested. The petition may be accompanied by a specific project recommendation. The Commission will, during the public session of the next official Commission meeting, announce that such a petition has been received. The Commission may choose to vote on the petition at that time or to take the matter under advisement until the following Commission meeting at which time the Commission must vote to determine if the petition has merit. Following acceptance of a petition the Commission will promptly establish the procedures and schedule that will be followed in considering amendments. Project recommendations made pursuant to a petition must be presented using the format described in ยง 10005.18 and will be evaluated in the manner described in ยง 10005.20. Proposals for technical amendments do not require a formal petition. Written requests for technical amendment will be acted upon by the Commission in a timely manner.
