
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Lands
### Chapter III - Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
#### PART 10010 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
##### Subpart A - Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality
###### ยง 10010.3 General responsibilities.

The following responsibilities reflect the Commission's decision that the officials responsible for making program decisions are also responsible for taking the requirements of NEPA into account in those decisions and will be held accountable for that responsibility:

(a) Executive Director. (1) Is the Commission's focal point on NEPA matters and is responsible for overseeing the Commission's implementation of NEPA.

(2) Serves as the Commission's principle contact with the CEQ.

(3) Assigns to Commission staff the responsibilities outlined in this part.

(4) Must comply with the provisions of NEPA, E.O. 11514 as amended, the CEQ regulations, and this part.

(5) Will interpret and administer, to the fullest extent possible, the policies, regulations, and public laws of the United States administered under the Commission's jurisdiction in accordance with the policies of NEPA.

(6) Will continue to review the Commission's statutory authorities, administrative regulations, policies, programs, and procedures, in order to identify any deficiencies or inconsistencies therein which prohibit or limit full compliance with the intent, purpose, and provisions of NEPA and, in consultation with the Department of the Interior Office of the Solicitor, shall take or recommend, as appropriate, corrective actions as may be necessary to bring these authorities and policies into conformance with the intent, purpose, and procedures of NEPA.

(7) Will monitor, evaluate, and control on a continuing basis the Commission's activities so as to protect and enhance the quality of the environment. Such activities will include those directed to conserving and enhancing the environment and designed to accomplish other program objectives which may affect the quality of the environment. The Executive Director will develop programs and measures to protect and enhance environmental quality and assess progress in meeting the specific objectives of such activities as they affect the quality of the environment.
