
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 6 - PATENT REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Inventions by Employees
##### ยง 6.2 Report of invention.

(a) Every invention made by an employee of the Department shall be reported by such employee through his supervisor and the head of the bureau or office to the Solicitor, unless the invention obviously is unpatentable. If the invention is the result of group work, the report shall be made by the supervisor and shall be signed by all employees participating in the making of the invention. The original and two copies of the invention report shall be furnished to the Solicitor. The Solicitor may prescribe the form of the report.

(b) The report shall be made as promptly as possible, taking into consideration such factors as possible publication or public use, reduction to practice, and the necessity for protecting any rights of the Government in the invention. Although it is not necessary to withhold the report until the process or device is completely reduced to practice, reduction to practice assists in the preparation of a patent application and, if diligently pursued, protects the interests of the Government and of the inventor. If an invention is reduced to practice after the invention report is filed, the Solicitor must be notified forthwith.

(c) For the protection of the rights of the Government and of the inventor, invention reports and memoranda or correspondence concerning them are to be considered as confidential documents.

(d) An invention report shall include the following:

(1) A brief but pertinently descriptive title of the invention;

(2) The full name, residence, office address, bureau or office and division, position or title, and official working place of the inventor or inventors;

(3) A statement of the evidence that is available as to the making of the invention, including information relative to conception, disclosures to others, and reduction to practice. Examples of such information are references to signed, witnessed and dated laboratory notebooks, or other authenticated records pertaining to the conception of the invention, operational data sheets, analysis and operation evaluation reports pertaining to a reduction to practice, and visitor log books, letters and other documents pertaining to disclosures to others. These need not be submitted with the report, only the identifying data is required, e.g., volume and page number in a laboratory notebook;

(4) Information concerning any past or prospective publication, oral presentation or public use of the invention;

(5) The problem which led to the making of the invention;

(6) The objects, advantages, and uses of the invention;

(7) A detailed description of the invention;

(8) Experimental data;

(9) The prior art known to the inventor(s) and the manner in which the invention distinguishes thereover;

(10) A statement that the employee:

(i) Is willing to and does hereby assign to the Government:
