
# Title 43 - Public Lands: Interior
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Interior
### PART 6 - PATENT REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### ยง 6.55 Terms of licenses or sublicenses.

(a) No license or sublicense shall be granted under any patent in which the Secretary of the Interior has transferable interests, except as set forth under these regulations, the terms and conditions of which shall be expressly stated in such license and sublicense. The terms of licenses and sublicenses issued under this subpart shall not be unreasonably restrictive.

(b) To the extent that they do not conflict with any restrictions to which the licensing or sublicensing of Class B patents and unpatented inventions may be subject, all licenses and sublicenses relating to Class A and Class B patents and unpatented inventions shall be subject to the following terms and provisions, and to such other terms and conditions as the Solicitor may prescribe:

(1) The acceptance of a license or sublicense shall not be construed as a waiver of the right to contest the validity of the patent. A license or sublicense shall be revocable only upon a finding by the Solicitor of the Department that the terms of the license or sublicense have been violated and that the revocation of the license or sublicense is in the public interest. Such finding shall be made only after reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard.

(2) Licenses and sublicenses shall be nontransferable. Upon a satisfactory showing that the Government or public will be benefited thereby, they may be granted to properly qualified applicants royalty-free. If no such showing is made, they shall be granted only upon a reasonable royalty or other consideration, the amount or character of which is to be determined by the Solicitor. A cross-licensing agreement may be considered adequate consideration.

(3) Licensees and sublicensees may be required to submit annual or more frequent technical or statistical reports concerning practical experience acquired through the exercise of the license or sublicense, the extent of the production under the license or sublicense, and other related subjects.

(4) A licensee or sublicensee manufacturing a patented article pursuant to a license or sublicense shall give notice to the public that the article is patented by affixing thereon the word "patent", together with the number of the patent, or when, from the character of the article, this cannot be done, by fixing to it, or to the package in which it is enclosed, a label containing such notice.

(c) Licenses and sublicenses relating to Class C patents and patent rights shall be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed pursuant to sections 3 and 5 of the Act of April 5 1944, and any amendments thereof.
