
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 5 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 5.20 General provisions.
###### Purpose and scope.

(a)(1) This subpart contains the rules that the Department of Homeland Security (Department or DHS) follows in processing records under the Privacy Act of 1974 (Privacy Act) (5 U.S.C. 552a) and under the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 (JRA) (5 U.S.C. 552a note).

(2) The rules in this subpart should be read in conjunction with the text of the Privacy Act and the JRA, 5 U.S.C. 552a and 5 U.S.C. 552a note, respectively (which provide additional information abo ut records maintained on individuals and covered persons), and JRA designations issued in theThe rules in this subpart apply to all records in systems of records maintained by the Department. These rules also apply to all records containing Social Security Numbers regardless of whether such records are covered by an applicable system of records maintained by the Department. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures by Department personnel and contractors. In addition, the Department processes all Privacy Act and JRA requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552), following the rules contained in subpart A of this part, which gives requesters the benefit of both statutes.

(3) The provisions established by this subpart apply to all Department Components, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) DHS has a decentralized system for processing requests, with each component handling requests for its records.
