
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 5 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 5.21 Requests for access to records.
###### http://www.dhs.gov/dhs-foia-request-submission-form.,https://www.dhs.gov/system-records-notices-sorns.

(2) An individual may make a request for access to a Department of Homeland Security record about that individual covered by a DHS or Component system of records notice (SORN) by writing directly to the Department component that maintains the record at the address listed in appendix A to this part or via the internet atA description of all DHS-wide and component SORNs may be found here:

(3) In most cases, a component's central FOIA office, as indicated in appendix A to this part, is the place to send a Privacy Act request. For records held by a field office of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Coast Guard, or other Department components with field offices other than the U.S. Secret Service and Transportation Security Administration, the requester must write directly to that U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Coast Guard, or other field office address, which can be found by calling the component's central FOIA office. Requests for U.S. Secret Service records should be sent only to the U.S. Secret Service central FOIA office, and requests for Transportation Security Administration records should be sent only to the Transportation Security Administration central FOIA office.

(4) Requests for records held by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) should be sent to the DHS Privacy Office.

(5) DHS's FOIA website refers the reader to descriptions of the functions of each component and provides other information that is helpful in determining where to make a request. Each component's FOIA office and any additional requirements for submitting a request to a given component are listed in appendix A to this part. These references can all be used by requesters to determine where to send their requests within DHS.
