
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 5 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 5.21 Requests for access to records.
###### Description of records sought.,https://www.dhs.gov/system-records-notices-sorns.

(c)A requester must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Department personnel to locate the system of records covering them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, the request should describe the records sought, the time periods in which the requester believes they were compiled, the office or location in which the requester believes the records are kept, and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which the requester believes they are kept. The Department publishes notices in thethat describe its components' systems of records. These notices can be found on the Department's website here:If a request does not adequately describe the records sought, DHS may at its discretion either administratively close the request or seek additional information from the requester. Requests for clarification or more information will be made in writing (either via U.S. mail or electronic mail whenever possible). Requesters may respond by U.S. Mail or by electronic mail regardless of the method used by DHS to transmit the request for additional information. To be considered timely, responses to requests for additional information must be postmarked or received by electronic mail within 30 working days of the postmark date or date of the electronic mail request for additional information. If the requester does not respond timely, the request may be administratively closed at DHS's discretion. This administrative closure does not prejudice the requester's ability to submit a new request for further consideration with additional information.
