
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 126 - TRANSPORTATION SECURITY OVERSIGHT BOARD REVIEW PANEL PROCESS AND PROCEDURES
#### ยง 126.5 Appointment of TSOB Review Panel and TSOB Docket Clerk.

(a) Upon request by the Chairman of the TSOB, TSOB members will designate at least one official who meets the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to participate in a TSOB Review Panel pool for a period of two years. The Review Panel nominees must-

(1) Be a member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) or a Senior Level (SL) employee;

(2) Hold a security clearance commensurate with the record under review;

(3) Not be employed by TSA or FAA;

(4) To the extent practicable, have a legal background and be engaged in the practice of law on behalf of the United States Government; and

(5) To the extent practicable, be familiar with transportation security issues.

(b) Upon the expiration of each two-year period, TSOB members will again designate officials to participate in the TSOB Review Panel pool.

(c) The General Counsel of the Department of Homeland Security, or the General Counsel's designee, will appoint an individual from within the Office of the General Counsel to serve as the TSOB Docket Clerk. The TSOB Docket Clerk will serve as the TSOB Review Panel's point of contact for both the public and the parties to ALJ proceedings.

(d) When the TSOB Docket Clerk receives a properly and timely filed appeal from an ALJ's decision, the TSOB Chairperson selects at least three individuals from the TSOB Review Panel pool to serve on a Review Panel to review the ALJ's decision. The TSOB Chairperson has discretion to choose which individuals from the pool will serve on a TSOB Review Panel. In making selections for a TSOB Review Panel, the TSOB Chairperson will consider selecting at least one person with the qualifications set out in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to serve as a Panel Member, and will consider, based upon the composition of the pool as well as the issues raised in the appeal, appointing more than one person with the qualifications set out in paragraph (a)(4) to the TSOB Review Panel.
