
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 126 - TRANSPORTATION SECURITY OVERSIGHT BOARD REVIEW PANEL PROCESS AND PROCEDURES
#### ยง 126.25 Oral argument.

(a) Upon receipt of a request from any party contained in a brief or in a motion, or on its own initiative, a TSOB Review Panel may order the parties to present oral argument. The Review Panel orders oral argument if it determines that oral argument will contribute substantially to the development of an issue on appeal.

(b) A TSOB Review Panel has discretion, within the requirements of all relevant statutory and regulatory provisions for information security, to choose the method and location of oral argument. The Review Panel will consider expense and inconvenience to the parties, the importance of information security, the quality and reliability of available communication technology, and concern for the efficient administration of proceedings when establishing the method and location of oral argument.

(c) A TSOB Review Panel has discretion to structure and establish procedural rules for oral argument via order served on the parties. Such rules may include time limits for argument and the order in which parties present argument.

(d) Classified information, SSI, or other protected information may not be disclosed during oral argument. A TSOB Review Panel may hold ex parte proceedings to allow for the presentation of classified information, SSI, or other protected information.
