
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 5 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 5.22 Responsibility for responding to requests for access to records.
###### Release of medical records.

(d)(1) Generally, an individual has the right to access their medical records maintained by the Department. Special procedures for requests from an individual requesting medical records that include psychological records for which direct release may cause harm to the individual requesting access are set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) If a request is made for access to medical records that include psychological records, and a component medical practitioner or qualified designee determines that direct release is likely to adversely affect the individual who is requesting access, the component will request the individual to provide the name and contact information of a representative who is capable of ameliorating the potential adverse effect. The representative may be a physician or other health professional who will be willing to review the record and inform the requester of its contents. Once provided, the component FOIA office or designated component official will send the medical records to the individual's designated representative. The component will inform the subject individual in writing (either via U.S. mail or electronic mail whenever possible) that the record has been sent to that individual's chosen representative. The representative does not have the discretion to withhold any part of the individual's record. If the subject individual does not comply with the procedural requirement to designate a representative, the component may decline to release the requested information.

(3) Paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not apply to Coast Guard records held by another agency.
