
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart E - Acquiring Talent
##### Assessment and Hiring
###### ยง 158.520 Assessment.

(a) The Department determines individuals' CTMS qualifications under the assessment program described in this section. To be considered for employment in the DHS-CS, an individual must participate in the assessment program and meet applicable rating or scoring thresholds in each assessment process in which that individual participates.

(b) The Department establishes and administers an assessment program, with one or more assessment processes, based on CTMS qualifications. The assessment program is designed to efficiently and accurately determine individuals' CTMS qualifications.

(c) Each assessment process compares the qualifications of an individual to CTMS qualifications. The Department develops and administers each assessment process in accordance with applicable legal and professional guidelines governing the assessment and selection of individuals.

(d) An assessment process may use standardized instruments and procedures to measure qualifications. An assessment process may also use demonstrations of qualifications determined appropriate by the Secretary or designee, such as rewards earned from the cybersecurity competition described in Executive Order 13870, published, peer-reviewed cybersecurity research, or a cybersecurity invention or discovery granted a patent under 35 U.S.C. Part II.

(e) The Department makes available information to assist individuals in understanding the purpose of, and preparing for participation in, an assessment process.

(f) To maintain the objectivity and integrity of the assessment program, the Department maintains control over the security and release of materials relating to the assessment program, including assessment plans, validation studies, and other content. Except as otherwise required by law, the Department does not release the following:

(1) Sensitive materials relating to the design and administration of the assessment program;

(2) Names or lists of individuals applying for employment in the DHS-CS; and

(3) Results or relative ratings of individuals who participated in the assessment program.
