
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart E - Acquiring Talent
##### Assessment and Hiring
###### § 158.522 Selection and appointment.

(a) The Department selects an individual for employment in the DHS-CS based on the individual's CTMS qualifications, as determined under the assessment program described in § 158.520.

(b) Prior to finalizing the selection of an individual for employment in the DHS-CS, the Department considers the availability of preference eligibles for appointment under this part, including those recruited based on specific strategies described in § 158.510(d), who have participated in the assessment program and met applicable rating or scoring thresholds, as described in § 158.520(a). When a selection is imminent and there are both preference eligibles and non-preference eligibles undergoing final consideration, the Department regards status as a preference eligible as a positive factor in accordance with CTMS policy.

(c) The Department appoints an individual to a qualified position under the authority in 6 U.S.C. 658 and this part, and all such appointments are in the excepted service and are one of the following types of appointment:

(1) A renewable appointment under § 158.523(a);

(2) A continuing appointment under § 158.523(b); or

(3) An advisory appointment under § 158.523(c).

(d) As part of selecting an individual for employment in the DHS-CS and appointing an individual to a qualified position under this part, the Department:

(1) Determines applicable work and career structures, including the individual's initial work level, using the work valuation system described in § 158.404;

(2) Sets the individual's initial salary using the salary system as described in § 158.620; and

(3) Matches the individual with an initial assignment as described in § 158.703(c).

(e) No qualified position may be established through the non-competitive conversion of a current Federal employee from an appointment made outside the authority of this part to an appointment made under this part.

(f) An individual who accepts an appointment to a qualified position under this part voluntarily accepts an appointment in the excepted service.

(g) A DHS-CS employee serves in the same qualified position throughout a single continuing appointment under this part and throughout multiple, consecutive renewable or continuing appointments under this part, regardless of any changes in the employee's assignments, including primary DHS organization, or changes in the employee's official worksite.
