
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart F - Compensating Talent
##### Salaries
###### § 158.611 Salary structure.

(a) Under the salary system, described in § 158.610, the Department establishes and administers one or more salary structures based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).

(b) A salary structure:

(1) Is bounded by the salary range described in § 158.613;

(2) Incorporates, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the salary limitations described in § 158.614; and

(3) May incorporate other salary and cost control strategies, such as control points.

(c) A salary structure includes subranges, within the salary range described in § 158.613 that are associated with work levels established by the work valuation system, described in § 158.404. Each such subrange is associated with at least one such work level.

(d) The Department incorporates the salary limitations described in § 158.614 into a salary structure by assigning each such salary limitation to at least one subrange of the salary structure. The Department assigns such salary limitations in ascending order to the subranges such that each subrange has a salary limitation that is greater than or equal to the salary maximum of that subrange.

(e) The Department may adjust a salary structure annually, or as the Secretary or designee determines necessary, based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).
