
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart F - Compensating Talent
##### Recognition
###### § 158.631 Recognition adjustments.

(a) Under this section and § 158.630, the Department may provide a recognition adjustment to a DHS-CS employee for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(a). A recognition adjustment is an adjustment to the DHS-CS employee's salary provided under a salary structure described in § 158.611. A recognition adjustment does not alter any local cybersecurity talent market supplement for that employee.

(b) No DHS-CS employee may receive a recognition adjustment that would cause the employee's salary to exceed the salary range maximum described in § 158.613(d) or the applicable salary limitation assigned to the subrange of a salary structure as described in § 158.611(d) that contains the employee's salary. A DHS-CS employee may not receive a recognition adjustment that would cause the employee's salary amount to be in the extended range, described in § 158.613(c), unless the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range for that employee under § 158.613(c)(1).

(c) A recognition adjustment under this section is not a promotion for any purpose under Title 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.

(d) A recognition adjustment under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
