
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart F - Compensating Talent
##### Other Special Payments
###### § 158.642 Special working conditions payment program.

(a) In alignment with the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Department may establish a program to provide payments to DHS-CS employees to address special working conditions that are otherwise unaccounted for or the Department determines are accounted for insufficiently in DHS-CS employees' other types of additional compensation and salary.

(b) Special working conditions include circumstances in which a supervisor or other appropriate official requires a DHS-CS employee to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work that involves, as determined by the Department:

(1) Unusual physical or mental hardship;

(2) Performing work at atypical locations, at unexpected times, or for an uncommon duration of time exceeding the expectation described in § 158.601(c) about working unusual hours and extended hours; or

(3) A combination of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(c) A payment for special working conditions is a payment of up to 25 percent of the receiving DHS-CS employee's salary as computed for a work period, defined in § 158.705(b), or a series of work periods.

(d) The Department determines whether to establish, adjust, or cancel a program under this section based on information from:

(1) The work scheduling system described in § 158.705; and

(2) Strategic talent planning described in § 158.401(c), including information about current compensation practices of other cybersecurity employers analyzed under the talent market analysis described in § 158.403.

(e) The Department determines eligibility for a payment for special working conditions under this section and CTMS policy implementing this section.

(1) A DHS-CS employee who receives a payment for special working conditions under a program established under this section is not automatically eligible or entitled to receive any additional such payments.

(2) A DHS-CS employee receiving a salary equal to or greater than EX-IV is ineligible to receive a payment under this section.

(3) A DHS-CS advisory appointee is ineligible to receive a payment for special working conditions under this section.

(f) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:

(1) Eligibility criteria;

(2) Requirements for documenting the reason and basis for payments for special working conditions provided to a DHS-CS employee;

(3) Appropriate levels of review and approval for providing payments for special working conditions;

(4) Any limitations on payments for special working conditions;

(5) Requirements for determining whether a payment for special working conditions is a lump sum payment, paid in installments, or a recurring payment; and

(6) Processes for evaluating the effectiveness of any special working conditions payment program in supporting the purpose of CTMS described in § 158.101, the purpose of the DHS-CS described in § 158.202, and the operationalization of the compensation strategy described in § 158.601.

(g) Any payment under this section is subject to and may be limited by the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.

(h) Any payment under this section is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under Title 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.

(i) A payment for special working conditions under this section is based on the following types of payments provided under 5 U.S.C.:

(1) Night, standby and hazardous duty differential under 5 U.S.C. 5545;

(2) Pay for Sunday and holiday work under 5 U.S.C. 5546; and

(3) Extended assignment incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5757.

(j) A payment for special working conditions under this section is in lieu of the types of payment provided under 5 U.S.C. listed in paragraph (g) of this section, and a DHS-CS employee is ineligible to receive any such payments under 5 U.S.C.
