
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 158 - CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)
#### Subpart G - Deploying Talent
##### ยง 158.705 Work scheduling.
###### Work schedule requirements.

(d)(1) DHS-CS employees are expected to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with their assignments to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission, especially in response to exigent circumstances and emergencies, including cybersecurity incidents defined in 6 U.S.C. 659, without entitlement to more compensation than the employee's salary described in ยง 158.603. Hours worked by a DHS-CS employee that exceed the employee's minimum hours of work do not affect the employee's salary or result in any automatic compensation, including a type of additional compensation.

(2) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule is expected to work at least 80 hours per work period.

(3) A DHS-CS employee on a part-time schedule is expected to work at least the employee's specified number of hours of work per work period.

(4) A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule is expected to work as necessary to perform the DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with the employee's assignment, not to exceed the maximum number of total hours for the employee's appointment.

(5) DHS-CS employees must report hours worked by the employee. The Department monitors such hours for purposes of managing the DHS-CS, including considering any changes to DHS-CS employees' schedules, and administering compensation, including assisting in consideration of any additional compensation for DHS-CS employees under ยง 158.642.

(6) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule or a part-time schedule must account for minimum hours of work by the conclusion of the last day of the work period. If the hours worked by the employee are less than the employee's minimum hours of work, the employee must use time-off approved by the employee's supervisor, or must be placed in an appropriate non-pay status for the purposes described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, to account for the difference between hours actually worked by the employee and the employee's minimum hours of work.

(7) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule or a part-time schedule, in coordination with the employee's supervisor, may adjust when work hours are completed in a given work period, to ensure time-off for religious observance, while also completing minimum hours of work. A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule, in coordination with the employee's supervisor, may adjust when work hours are completed to ensure time-off for religious observance.
