
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter X - Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
### PART 1000 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
#### ยง 1000.5 Delegations of authority.
##### The Board.

(a)The Board is the head of the agency. The Board is responsible for the overall planning, direction, and control of the agency's agenda. The delegations of authority in this part do not extend to the following actions which are reserved to the Board:

(1) Disposition of all rulemaking and similar proceedings involving the promulgation of rules or the issuance of statements of general policy.

(2) Determination of advice or recommendations to the President or executive departments and agencies regarding the matters described in 42 U.S.C. 2000ee(d).

(3) Determination of the Board's annual agenda or other statement of operational priorities; and

(4) Redelegation to one or more Board members or staff of those responsibilities delegated to the Chairman in ยง 1000.3(b), in the event of a vacancy.

(5) Formulation and implementation of policies designed to assure the effective administration of the Board's operations and the efficient operations of the staff.

(6) Any authority that is not delegated by the Board in this part, or otherwise vested in officials other than the Board, is reserved to the Board. The Board may reverse delegations at any time, and all delegated authority reverts to the Board upon the termination or expiration of the delegation.
