
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter X - Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
### PART 1001 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1001.5 Requests for records.
##### FOIA@pclob.gov,https://www.pclob.gov

(a) You may request copies of records under this part by email toor in writing addressed to FOIA Officer, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Requestors should check the Board's Web site atfor the Board's current mailing address. Please provide contact information, such as your phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the Board in communicating with you and providing released records.

(b) Your request shall reasonably describe the records sought with sufficient specificity, and when possible, include names, dates, and subject matter, in order to permit the FOIA Officer to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. If the FOIA Officer cannot locate responsive records based on your written description, you will be notified and advised that further identifying information is necessary before the request can be fulfilled. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the Board's FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Board's response to the request is likely to be delayed.

(c) Although requests are considered either FOIA or Privacy Act requests, the Board processes requests for records in accordance with both laws so as to provide the greatest degree of lawful access while safeguarding an individual's personal privacy.

(d) Your request should specify your preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. We will accommodate your request if the record is readily available in that form or format. When you do not specify the form or format of the response, we will provide responsive records in the form or format most convenient to us.
