
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter X - Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
### PART 1003 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
#### ยง 1003.4 Procedures for public announcement of meetings.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Board shall make a public announcement at least seven days prior to a meeting. The public announcement shall include:

(1) The time and place of the meeting;

(2) The subject matter of the meeting;

(3) Whether the meeting is to be open, closed, or portions of a meeting will be closed;

(4) Whether public participation will be allowed;

(5) The name and telephone number of the person who will respond to requests for information about the meeting;

(b) The seven day prior notice required by paragraph (a) of this section may be reduced only if:

(1) A majority of all members determine by recorded vote that Board business requires that such meeting be scheduled in less than seven days; and

(2) The public announcement required by this section is made at the earliest practicable time.

(c) When a meeting has been called by the Chairman, the notice shall contain such agenda items as the Chairman designates. The notice shall be circulated to Members in advance of publication and Members, by majority vote, may add additional agenda items.

(d) When a meeting is called by a majority of Members, the notice shall contain such agenda items as have been approved by a majority of the Board.

(e) The Executive Director will ensure that the final agenda for the meeting conforms to the notice published in the.

(f) If public notice is provided by means other than publication in thenotice will be promptly submitted to thefor publication.
