
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 7 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Classified Information
##### ยง 7.23 Emergency release of classified information.

(a) The DHS Undersecretary for Management has delegated to certain DHS employees the authority to disclose classified information to an individual or individuals not otherwise eligible for access in emergency situations when there is an imminent threat to life or in defense of the homeland.

(b) In exercising this authority, the delegees shall adhere to the following conditions:

(1) Limit the amount of classified information disclosed to a minimum to achieve the intended purpose;

(2) Limit the number of individuals who receive it to only those persons with a specific need-to-know;

(3) Transmit the classified information through approved communication channels by the most secure and expeditious method possible, or by other means deemed necessary in exigent circumstances;

(4) Provide instructions about what specific information is classified and how it should be safeguarded. Physical custody of classified information must remain with an authorized Federal Government entity, in all but the most extraordinary circumstances as determined by the delegated official;

(5) Provide appropriate briefings to the recipients on their responsibilities not to disclose the information and obtain from the recipients a signed DHS Emergency Release of Classified Information Non-disclosure Form. In emergency situations requiring immediate verbal release of information, the signed nondisclosure agreement memorializing the briefing may be received after the emergency abates;

(6) Within 72 hours of the disclosure of classified information, or the earliest opportunity that the emergency permits, but no later than 7 days after the release, the disclosing authority must notify the DHS Office of the Chief Security Officer, Administrative Security Division, and the originating agency of the information disclosed. A copy of the signed nondisclosure agreements should be forwarded with the notification, or as soon thereafter as practical.

(7) Release of information pursuant to this authority does not constitute declassification of the information.

(8) Authority to disclose classified information under the above conditions may not be further delegated.
