
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 7 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Classified Information
##### ยง 7.26 Derivative classification.

(a) Derivative classification is defined as the incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating in a new form information that is already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with the classification markings that apply to the source information. Information is also derivatively classified when classification is based on instructions provided in a security classification guide.

(b) Persons need not possess original classification authority to derivatively classify information based on source documents or classification guides.

(c) Persons who perform derivative classification actions shall be designated as authorized derivative classifiers as specified in directives published by the Office of the Chief Security Officer.

(d) Persons who are designated as authorized derivative classifiers shall attend mandatory classification training before performing derivative classification actions, and once every two years thereafter. Persons who fail to attend mandatory training shall have such authority suspended until such time as the training occurs.

(1) Except for suspensions of the Office of Inspector General's classification authority, the Chief Security Officer may waive the suspension of authority for no longer than 60 days following the due date of the training when unavoidable circumstances exist that prevent the person from attending the training.

(2) For cases involving suspension of the Office of Inspector General's classification authority under paragraph (d) of this section, only the Secretary or Deputy Secretary may waive such a suspension.

(e) Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall observe original classification decisions and carry forward to any newly created documents the pertinent classification markings.

(f) Information classified derivatively from other classified information shall be classified and marked in accordance with the standards set forth in sections 2.1 and 2.2 of Executive Order 13526, 32 CFR part 2001, and internal DHS guidance provided by the Office of the Chief Security Officer.
