
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 13 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
#### § 13.10 Default upon failure to answer.

(a) If the Defendant does not answer within the time prescribed in § 13.9(a), the Reviewing Official may refer the Complaint to an ALJ by filing the Complaint and a Statement that Defendant has failed to answer on time.

(b) Upon the referral of the Complaint, the ALJ will promptly serve on Defendant in the manner prescribed in § 13.8, a notice that an Initial Decision will be issued under this section.

(c) In addition, the ALJ will assume the facts alleged in the Complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under § 13.3, the ALJ will issue an Initial Decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.

(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to answer on time, the Defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the Initial Decision will become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.

(e) If, before such an Initial Decision becomes final, the Defendant files a motion seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the Defendant from answering, the Initial Decision will be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.

(f) If, on such motion, the Defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to answer on time, the ALJ will withdraw the Initial Decision in paragraph (c) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and will grant the Defendant an opportunity to answer the Complaint.

(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a Defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 13.38.

(h) The Defendant may appeal to the Authority Head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal in accordance with § 13.26 within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal will stay the Initial Decision until the Authority Head decides the issue.

(i) If the Defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Authority Head, the ALJ will forward the record of the proceeding to the Authority Head.

(j) The Authority Head will decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the Defendant's failure to answer on time based solely on the record before the ALJ.

(k) If the Authority Head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the Defendant's failure to answer on time, the Authority Head will remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the Defendant an opportunity to answer.

(l) If the Authority Head decides that the Defendant's failure to answer on time is not excused, the Authority Head will reinstate the Initial Decision of the ALJ, which will become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the Authority Head issues such decision.
