
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 13 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
#### ยง 13.23 Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.

(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any Individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena. Requests for witness testimony of senior level DHS officials (including career and non-career senior executive level employees) shall not be approved absent a showing of compelling need that cannot be met by any other means.

(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an Individual may also require the Individual to produce Documents at the hearing.

(c) A party seeking a subpoena will file a written request therefore not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request will be accompanied by a proposed subpoena, which will specify and Documents to be produced and will designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.

(d) The subpoena will specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any Documents the witness is to produce.

(e) The party seeking the subpoena will serve it in the manner prescribed in ยง 13.8. A subpoena on a party or upon an Individual under the control of party may be served by first class mail.

(f) A party or the Individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service. If the ALJ has not acted on such a motion by the return date, such date will be suspended pending the ALJ's final action on the motion.
