
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 13 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
#### ยง 13.38 Reconsideration of Initial Decision.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the Initial Decision within 20 days of receipt of the Initial Decision. If service was Made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.

(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion will be accompanied by a supporting brief.

(c) Responses to such motions will be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.

(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an Initial Decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.

(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised Initial Decision.

(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the Initial Decision will constitute the final decision of the Authority Head and will be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the Initial Decision is timely appealed to the Authority Head in accordance with ยง 13.39.

(g) If the ALJ issues a revised Initial Decision, that decision will constitute the final decision of the Authority Head and will be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the Authority Head in accordance with ยง 13.39.
