
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 15 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
#### ยง 15.70 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs and activities conducted by the Department.

(b) The Department shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614.

(c) All other complaints alleging violations of section 504 may be sent to the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20528. The Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section.

(d)(1) Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by him or herself, or by his or her authorized representative, file a complaint. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint.

(2) The Department shall accept and investigate all complete complaints over which it has jurisdiction.

(3) All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Department may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Department receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate entity of the Federal government.

(f) The Department shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.

(g)(1) Not later than 180 days from the receipt of a complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction, the Department shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing:

(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.

(2) Department employees are required to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.

(3) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement shall describe the subject matter of the complaint and any corrective action to which the parties have agreed.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant not later than 60 days after receipt from the Department of the letter required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section. The Department may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, or designee thereof, who will issue the final agency decision which may include appropriate corrective action to be taken by the Department.

(j) The Department shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 30 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the Department determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 30 days from the date it received the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties determines that there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.

(l) The Department may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies and may contract with nongovernment investigators to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
