
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 21 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE, COLOR, OR NATIONAL ORIGIN IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
#### Appendix A to Part 21 - Activities to Which This Part Applies

1. Lease of real property and the grant of permits, licenses, easements and rights-of-way covering real property under control of the U.S. Coast Guard (14 U.S.C. 93 (n) and (o)).

2. Utilization of U.S. Coast Guard personnel and facilities by any State, territory, possession, or political subdivision thereof (14 U.S.C. 141(a)).

3. Use of U.S. Coast Guard personnel for duty in connection with maritime instruction and training by the States, territories, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (14 U.S.C. 148).

4. Use of obsolete and other U.S. Coast Guard material by sea scout service of Boy Scouts of America, any incorporated unit of the U.S. Coast Guard auxiliary, and public body or private organization not organized for profit (14 U.S.C. 641(a)).

5. U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary Program (14 U.S.C. 821-832).

6. U.S. Coast Guard Boating Safety Financial Assistance program.

7. U.S. Coast Guard State Access to Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund.

8. U.S. Coast Guard Bridge Alteration.

9. Use of Customs personnel and facilities by any State, territory, possession, or political subdivision thereof.

10. Use of Customs personnel for duty in connection with instruction and training by the States, territories and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

11. Grants to educational institutions, associations, States, or other entities for research, analysis, or programs or strategies relating to trade issues.
