
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 25 - REGULATIONS TO SUPPORT ANTI-TERRORISM BY FOSTERING EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
#### ยง 25.4 Designation of qualified anti-terrorism technologies.
##### Developmental Testing & Evaluation (DT&E) Designations.

(f)With respect to any Technology that is being developed, tested, evaluated, modified or is otherwise being prepared for deployment for the purpose of preventing, detecting, identifying, or deterring acts of terrorism or limiting the harm such acts might otherwise cause, the Under Secretary may Designate such Technology as a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology and make such Technology eligible for the protections under the system of litigation and risk management set forth in sections 441-444 of title 6, United States Code. A Designation made pursuant to this paragraph shall be referred to as a "DT&E Designation," and shall confer all of the rights, privileges and obligations that accompany Designations made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section except as modified by the terms of this paragraph or the terms of the particular DT&E Designation. The intent of this paragraph is to make eligible for SAFETY Act protections qualifying Technologies that are undergoing testing and evaluation and that may need to be deployed in the field either for developmental testing and evaluation purposes or on an emergency basis, including during a period of heightened risk. DT&E Designations shall describe the subject Technology (in such detail as the Under Secretary deems to be appropriate); identify the Seller of the subject Technology; be limited to the period of time set forth in the applicable DT&E Designation, which in no instance shall exceed a reasonable period for testing or evaluating the Technology (presumptively not longer than 36 months); be terminable by the Under Secretary at any time upon notice to the Seller; be subject to the limitations on the use or deployment of the QATT set forth in the DT&E Designation; and be subject to such other limitations as established by the Under Secretary. The protections associated with a DT&E Designation shall apply only during the period specified in the applicable DT&E Designation. Consent of the Seller of a QATT Designated pursuant to this paragraph will be a condition precedent to the establishment of any deployment or use condition and any other obligation established by the Under Secretary pursuant to this paragraph. Those seeking a DT&E Designation for a QATT pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall follow the procedures for DT&E Designations set forth in the SAFETY Act Application Kit.
