
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 25 - REGULATIONS TO SUPPORT ANTI-TERRORISM BY FOSTERING EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
#### ยง 25.6 Procedures for designation of qualified anti-terrorism technologies.
##### Review Process.

(c)(1) The Under Secretary or his designee will review each complete application and any included supporting materials. In performing this function, the Under Secretary or his designee may but is not required to:

(i) Request additional information from the Seller;

(ii) Meet with representatives of the Seller;

(iii) Consult with, and rely upon the expertise of, any other Federal or non-Federal entity;

(iv) Perform studies or analyses of the subject Technology or the insurance market for such Technology; and

(v) Seek information from insurers regarding the availability of insurance for such Technology.

(2) For Technologies with which a Federal, State, or local government agency already has substantial experience or data (through the procurement process or through prior use or review), the review may rely in part upon such prior experience and, thus, may be expedited. The Under Secretary may consider any scientific studies, testing, field studies, or other experience with the Technology that he deems appropriate and that are available or can be feasibly conducted or obtained, including test results produced by an independent laboratory or other entity engaged to test or verify the safety, utility, performance, in order to assess the effectiveness of the Technology or the capability of the Technology to substantially reduce risks of harm. Such studies may, in the Under Secretary's discretion, include, without limitation:

(i) Public source studies;

(ii) Classified and otherwise confidential studies;

(iii) Studies, tests, or other performance records or data provided by or available to the producer of the specific Technology; and

(iv) Proprietary studies that are available to the Under Secretary.

(3) In considering whether or the extent to which it is feasible to defer a decision on a Designation until additional scientific studies can be conducted on a particular Technology, the Under Secretary will bring to bear his expertise concerning the protection of the security of the United States and will consider the urgency of the need for the Technology.
