
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 25 - REGULATIONS TO SUPPORT ANTI-TERRORISM BY FOSTERING EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
#### § 25.6 Procedures for designation of qualified anti-terrorism technologies.
##### Block Designations.,http://www.safetyact.gov

(h)(1) From time to time, the Under Secretary, in response to an application submitted pursuant to § 25.6(a) or upon his own initiative, may issue a Designation that is applicable to any person, firm, or other entity that is a qualified Seller of the QATT described in such Designation (a "Block Designation"). A Block Designation will be issued only for Technology that relies on established performance standards or defined technical characteristics. All Block Designations shall be published by the Department within ten days after the issuance thereof at, and copies may also be obtained by mail by sending a request to: Directorate of Science and Technology, SAFETY Act/room 4320, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20528. Any person, firm, or other entity that desires to qualify as a Seller of a QATT that has received a Block Designation shall complete only such portions of the application referenced in § 25.6(a) as are specified in such Block Designation and shall submit an application to the Department in accordance with § 25.6(a) and the terms of the Block Designation. Applicants seeking to be qualified Sellers of a QATT pursuant to a Block Designation will receive expedited review of their applications and shall not be required to provide information with respect to the technical merits of the QATT that has received Block Designation. Within 60 days (or such other period of time as may be specified in the applicable Block Designation) after the receipt by the Department of a complete application, the Under Secretary shall take one of the following actions:

(i) Approve the application and notify the applicant in writing of such approval, which notification shall include the certification required by § 25.5(g); or

(ii) Deny the application, and notify the applicant in writing of such decision, including the reasons for such denial.

(2) If the application is approved, commencing on the date of such approval the applicant shall be deemed to be a Seller under the applicable Block Designation for all purposes under the SAFETY Act, this part, and such Block Designation. A Block Designation shall be valid and effective for a term of five to eight years (as determined by the Under Secretary in his discretion) commencing on the date of issuance, and may be renewed or extended by the Under Secretary at his own initiative or in response to an application for renewal submitted by a qualified Seller under such Block Designation in accordance with § 25.6(h). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this paragraph, a Block Designation shall be deemed to be a Designation for all purposes under the SAFETY Act and this part.
