
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 25 - REGULATIONS TO SUPPORT ANTI-TERRORISM BY FOSTERING EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
#### § 25.9 Procedures for certification of approved products for Homeland Security.
##### Block Certifications.,http://www.safetyact.gov

(j)(1) From time to time, the Under Secretary, in response to an application submitted pursuant to § 25.9(a) or at his own initiative, may issue a Certification that is applicable to any person, firm or other entity that is a qualified Seller of the Approved Product for Homeland Security described in such Certification (a "Block Certification"). All Block Certifications shall be published by the Department within ten days after the issuance thereof at, and copies may also be obtained by mail by sending a request to: Directorate of Science and Technology, SAFETY Act/room 4320, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20528. Any person, firm, or other entity that desires to qualify as a Seller of an Approved Product for Homeland Security under a Block Certification shall complete only such portions of the application referenced in § 25.9(a) as are specified in such Block Certification and shall submit such application to the Department in accordance with § 9(a). Applicants seeking to be qualified Sellers of an Approved Product for Homeland Security pursuant to a Block Certification will receive expedited review of their applications and shall not be required to provide information with respect to the technical merits of the Approved Product for Homeland Security that has received Block Certification. Within 60 days (or such other period of time as may be specified in the applicable Block Certification) after the receipt by the Department of a complete application, the Under Secretary shall take one of the following actions:

(i) Approve the application and notify the applicant in writing of such approval; or

(ii) Deny the application, and notify the applicant in writing of such decision, including the reasons for such denial.

(2) If the application is approved, commencing on the date of such approval, the applicant shall be deemed to be a Seller under the applicable Block Certification for all purposes under the SAFETY Act, this part, and such Block Certification. A Block Certification shall be valid and effective for the same period of time for which the related Block Designation is issued. A Block Certification may be renewed by the Under Secretary at his own initiative or in response to an application for renewal submitted by a qualified Seller under such Block Certification in accordance with § 25.9(g). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this paragraph, a Block Certification shall be deemed to be a Certification for all purposes under the SAFETY Act and this part.
