
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 27 - CHEMICAL FACILITY ANTI-TERRORISM STANDARDS
#### Subpart B - Chemical Facility Security Program
##### § 27.245 Review and approval of site security plans.
###### Review and approval.

(a)(1) The Department will review, and either approve or disapprove, all Site Security Plans that satisfy the requirements of § 27.225, including ASPs submitted pursuant to § 27.235.

(i) The Department will review Site Security Plans through a two-step process. Upon receipt of the Site Security Plan from the covered facility, the Department will review the documentation and make a preliminary determination as to whether it satisfies the requirements of § 27.225. If the Department finds that the requirements are satisfied, the Department will issue a Letter of Authorization to the covered facility.

(ii) Following issuance of the Letter of Authorization, the Department will inspect the covered facility in accordance with § 27.250 for purposes of determining compliance with the requirements of this part.

(iii) If the Department approves the Site Security Plan in accordance with § 27.250, the Department will issue a Letter of Approval to the facility, and the facility shall implement the approved Site Security Plan.

(2) The Department will not disapprove a Site Security Plan submitted under this part based on the presence or absence of a particular security measure. The Department may disapprove a Site Security Plan that fails to satisfy the risk-based performance standards established in § 27.230.

(b) When the Department disapproves a preliminary Site Security Plan issued prior to inspection or a Site Security Plan following inspection, the Department will provide the facility with a written notification that includes a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Site Security Plan. The facility shall then enter further consultations with the Department and resubmit a sufficient Site Security Plan by the time specified in the written notification provided by the Department under this section. If the resubmitted Site Security Plan does not satisfy the requirements of § 27.225, the Department will provide the facility with written notification (including a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Site Security Plan) of the Department's disapproval of the Site Security Plan.
