
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 29 - PROTECTED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION
#### ยง 29.6 Acknowledgment of receipt, validation, and marking.
##### Presumption of protection.

(b)All information submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 29.5 of this part will be presumed to be and will be treated as PCII, enjoying the protections of the CII Act, from the time the information is received by the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee. The information must remain protected unless and until the PCII Program Office renders a final decision that the information is not PCII. The PCII Program Office will, with respect to information that is not properly submitted, inform the submitting person or entity within thirty calendar days of receipt, by a means of communication to be prescribed by the PCII Program Manager, that the submittal was procedurally defective. The submitter will then have an additional thirty calendar days to remedy the deficiency from the date of receipt of such notification by the PCII Program Office. If the submitting person or entity does not cure the deficiency within thirty calendar days after the date of receipt of the notification provided by the PCII Program Office in this paragraph, the PCII Program Office may determine that the presumption of protection is terminated. Under such circumstances, the PCII Program Office may cure the deficiency by labeling the submission with the information required in ยง 29.5 or may notify the applicant that the submission does not qualify as PCII. No CII submission will lose its presumptive status as PCII except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
