
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 37 - REAL ID DRIVER'S LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS
#### Subpart B - Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
##### ยง 37.11 Application and documents the applicant must provide.
###### Identity.

(c)(1) To establish identity, the applicant must present at least one of the following source documents:

(i) Valid, unexpired U.S. passport.

(ii) Certified copy of a birth certificate filed with a State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in the individual's State of birth.

(iii) Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the U.S. Department of State, Form FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545.

(iv) Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) issued by DHS or INS.

(v) Unexpired employment authorization document (EAD) issued by DHS, Form I-766 or Form I-688B.

(vi) Unexpired foreign passport with a valid, unexpired U.S. visa affixed accompanied by the approved I-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the United States.

(vii) Certificate of Naturalization issued by DHS, Form N-550 or Form N-570.

(viii) Certificate of Citizenship, Form N-560 or Form N-561, issued by DHS.

(ix) REAL ID driver's license or identification card issued in compliance with the standards established by this part.

(x) Such other documents as DHS may designate by notice published in the

(2) Where a State permits an applicant to establish a name other than the name that appears on a source document (for example, through marriage, adoption, court order, or other mechanism permitted by State law or regulation), the State shall require evidence of the name change through the presentation of documents issued by a court, governmental body or other entity as determined by the State. The State shall maintain copies of the documentation presented pursuant to ยง 37.31, and maintain a record of both the recorded name and the name on the source documents in a manner to be determined by the State and in conformity with ยง 37.31.
