
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 37 - REAL ID DRIVER'S LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS
#### Subpart B - Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
##### ยง 37.17 Requirements for the surface of the driver's license or identification card.
###### http://www.ansi.org,www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) States shall follow specifically ISO/IEC 19794-5:2005(E) Information technology-Biometric Data Interchange Formats-Part 5: Face Image Data. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of these incorporated standards from, or by contacting ANSI at ANSI, 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10036. You may inspect a copy of the incorporated standard at the Department of Homeland Security, 1621 Kent Street, 9th Floor, Rosslyn, VA (please call 703-235-0709 to make an appointment) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to

These standards include:

(i) Lighting shall be equally distributed on the face.

(ii) The face from crown to the base of the chin, and from ear-to-ear, shall be clearly visible and free of shadows.

(iii) Veils, scarves or headdresses must not obscure any facial features and not generate shadow. The person may not wear eyewear that obstructs the iris or pupil of the eyes and must not take any action to obstruct a photograph of their facial features.

(iv) Where possible, there must be no dark shadows in the eye-sockets due to the brow. The iris and pupil of the eyes shall be clearly visible.

(v) Care shall be taken to avoid "hot spots" (bright areas of light shining on the face).

(2) Photographs may be in black and white or color.
