
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 37 - REAL ID DRIVER'S LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS
#### Subpart B - Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
##### ยง 37.19 Machine readable technology on the driver's license or identification card.
###### http://www.ansi.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

For the machine readable portion of the REAL ID driver's license or identification card, States must use the ISO/IEC 15438:2006(E) Information Technology-Automatic identification and data capture techniques-PDF417 symbology specification. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of these incorporated standards at, or by contacting ANSI at ANSI, 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10036. You may inspect a copy of the incorporated standard at the Department of Homeland Security, 1621 Kent Street, 9th Floor, Rosslyn, VA (please call 703-235-0709 to make an appointment) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go toThe PDF417 bar code standard must have the following defined minimum data elements:

(a) Expiration date.

(b) Full legal name, unless the State permits an applicant to establish a name other than the name that appears on a source document, pursuant to ยง 37.11(c)(2).

(c) Date of transaction.

(d) Date of birth.

(e) Gender.

(f) Address as listed on the card pursuant to ยง 37.17(f).

(g) Unique driver's license or identification card number.

(h) Card design revision date, indicating the most recent change or modification to the visible format of the driver's license or identification card.

(i) Inventory control number of the physical document.

(j) State or territory of issuance.
