
# Title 6 - Domestic Security
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary
### PART 37 - REAL ID DRIVER'S LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS
#### Subpart B - Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
##### ยง 37.29 Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license.

(a) An individual may hold only one REAL ID card. An individual cannot hold a REAL ID driver's license and a REAL ID identification card simultaneously. Nothing shall preclude an individual from holding a REAL ID card and a non-REAL ID card unless prohibited by his or her State.

(b) Prior to issuing a REAL ID driver's license,

(1) A State must check with all other States to determine if the applicant currently holds a driver's license or REAL ID identification card in another State.

(2) If the State receives confirmation that the individual holds a driver's license in another State, or possesses a REAL ID identification card in another State, the receiving State must take measures to confirm that the person has terminated or is terminating the driver's license or REAL ID identification card issued by the prior State pursuant to State law, regulation or procedure.

(c) Prior to issuing a REAL ID identification card,

(1) A State must check with all other States to determine if the applicant currently holds a REAL ID driver's license or identification card in another State.

(2) If the State receives confirmation that the individual holds a REAL ID card in another State the receiving State must take measures to confirm that the person has terminated or is terminating the REAL ID driver's license or identification card issued by the prior State pursuant to State law, regulation or procedure.
