
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart D - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Construction and Operation of the Liberty Drilling and Production Island
###### § 217.34 Mitigation requirements.
####### Liberty Drilling Production Island construction.

(c)(1) For all pile driving and construction activities involving heavy equipment, Hilcorp must implement a minimum shutdown zone of 10 meters (m) from any marine mammal in water or seals on land. If a marine mammal comes within or is about to enter the shutdown zone, such operations must cease immediately;

(2) For all pile driving activity, Hilcorp shall implement shutdown zones with radial distances as identified in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.36. If a marine mammal comes within or is about to enter the shutdown zone, such operations must cease immediately. NMFS may adjust the shutdown zones pending review and approval of an acoustic monitoring report (see § 217.35);

(3) Hilcorp must employ NMFS-approved protected species observers (PSOs) and designate monitoring zones with radial distances as identified in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.36. NMFS may adjust the monitoring zones pending review and approval of an acoustic monitoring report (see § 217.35);

(4) If a bowhead whale or other low frequency cetacean enters the Level A harassment zone, pile or pipe driving must be shut down immediately. If a beluga whale or pinniped enters the Level A harassment zone while pile driving is ongoing, work may continue until the pile is completed (estimated to require approximately 15-20 minutes), but additional pile driving must not be initiated until the animal has left the Level A harassment zone. During this time, PSOs must monitor the animal and record behavior;

(5) If a marine mammal is approaching a Level A harassment zone and pile driving has not commenced, pile driving must be delayed. Pile driving may not commence or resume until either the animal has voluntarily left and been visually confirmed beyond the shutdown zone; 15 minutes have passed without subsequent detections of small cetaceans and pinnipeds; or 30 minutes have passed without subsequent detections of large cetaceans;

(6) If a species for which authorization has not been granted, or a species for which authorization has been granted but the authorized takes are met, is observed approaching or within the monitoring zone (which equates to the Level B harassment zone), pile driving and removal activities must shut down immediately using delay and shut-down procedures. Activities must not resume until the animal has been confirmed to have left the area or the observation time period, as indicated in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, has elapsed;

(7) Hilcorp must use soft start techniques when impact pile driving. Soft start requires contractors to provide an initial set of strikes at reduced energy, followed by a thirty-second waiting period, then two subsequent reduced energy strike sets. A soft start must be implemented at the start of each day's impact pile driving and at any time following cessation of impact pile driving for a period of thirty minutes or longer;

(8) All pipe- and pile-driving activities (impact and vibratory) and LDPI support vessel traffic outside the barrier islands must cease by August 1, annually, and not resume until the official end of the hunt or until the quota has been met, whichever occurs first. Hilcorp must coordinate annually with subsistence users on the dates of these hunts; and

(9) Should an ice seal be observed on or near the LDPI by any Hilcorp personnel, during construction or operation, the sighting must be reported to Hilcorp's Environmental Specialist. No construction activity should occur within 10 m of an ice seal and any vehicles used should use precaution and not approach any ice seal within 10 m.
