
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart F - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Lighthouse Repair and Tour Operations at Northwest Seal Rock, California
###### ยง 217.54 Mitigation requirements.
####### Protocols.,e.g.,,e.g.,

(b)(1) The pilot must ensure that helicopter approach patterns to the NWSR are such that the timing and techniques are least disturbing to marine mammals. To the extent possible, the helicopter must approach NWSR when the tide is too high for marine mammals to haul out on NWSR. The helicopter must avoid rapid and direct approaches to the station by approaching NWSR at a relatively high altitude (800-1,000 ft; 244-305 m). Before the final approach, the helicopter must circle lower, and approach from an area where the density of pinnipeds is the lowest. If for any safety reasons (wind conditions or visibility) such helicopter approach and timing techniques cannot be achieved, the Society must abort the restoration and maintenance session for the day.

(2) Monitoring must be conducted by a trained PSO, who must have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods. Trained PSOs must be placed at the best vantage point(s) practicable to monitor for marine mammals and implement mitigation procedures when applicable. The Society must adhere to the following additional PSO qualifications:

(i) Independent PSOs are required;

(ii) At least one PSO must have prior experience working as an observer;

(iii) Other observers may substitute education (degree in biological science or related field) or training for experience; and

(iv) The Society must submit PSO resumes for approval by NMFS prior to beginning any activity subject to these regulations.

(3) The PSO must monitor the project area to the maximum extent possible based on the required monitoring locations and environmental conditions. They must record all observations of marine mammals as described in Section 5 of any LOA, regardless of distance from the activity. A PSO with a high definition camera must be on the first flight to the station each day. For 15 minutes before and after all other takeoffs and landings a PSO must be stationed on the platform of the lantern room gallery, and a PSO must be on the last departing helicopter of the day.
