
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart F - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Lighthouse Repair and Tour Operations at Northwest Seal Rock, California
###### ยง 217.54 Mitigation requirements.
####### General conditions.

(a)(1) A copy of any issued LOA must be in the possession of the Society, supervisory personnel, pilot, protected species observers (PSOs), and any other relevant designees of the Holder operating under the authority of this LOA at all times that activities subject to this LOA are being conducted.

(2) The Society must conduct training between supervisors and crews and the marine mammal monitoring team and relevant Society staff prior to the start of all trips and when new personnel join the work, so that responsibilities, communication procedures, monitoring protocols, and operational procedures are clearly understood. Visitors to the Station must be instructed to avoid unnecessary noise and not expose themselves visually to pinnipeds around the base of the lighthouse.

(3) All personnel must avoid direct physical interaction with marine mammals during activity. If a marine mammal comes within 10 m of such activity, operations must cease until the animal leaves of its own accord.

(4) Loud outside activity must be halted upon observation on Northwest Seal Rock (NWSR) of either a species for which incidental take is not authorized or a species for which incidental take has been authorized but the authorized number of takes has been met.

(5) No more than two restoration trips, or 6 days of flight operations, are permitted per month.
