
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart I - Taking of Marine Mammals Incidental to Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal School (NEODS) Training Operations
###### § 217.85 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) Holders of Letters of Authorization pursuant to § 216.106 of this chapter and § 217.87 for activities described in § 216.80(a) are required to cooperate with NMFS, and any other Federal, state, or local agency with authority to monitor the impacts of the activity on marine mammals. Unless specified otherwise in the Letter of Authorization, the Holder of the Letter of Authorization must notify the Administrator, Southeast Region, NMFS, by letter or telephone, prior to activities possibly involving the taking of marine mammals. If the authorized activity identified in § 217.80(a) is thought to have resulted in the mortality or injury of any marine mammals or in any take of marine mammals not identified in § 217.80(b), then the Holder of the Letter of Authorization must, in addition to complying with the requirements of § 217.82(a)-(d), notify the Director, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, or designee, by telephone (301-427-8400), within 24 hours of the discovery of the injured or dead animal.

(b) Holders of Letters of Authorization must designate trained, qualified, on-site individuals approved in advance by NMFS, as specified in the Letter of Authorization, to perform the following monitoring requirements:

(1) For NEODS testing, areas to be used in missions shall be visually monitored for marine mammal presence from a surface support vessel prior to detonation of mine neutralization charges. Monitoring shall be conducted 30 minutes before missions to clear the mitigation-monitoring zone. Post-mission monitoring shall also be conducted for 30 minutes after the final detonation (concentrated on the area down current of the test site). If marine mammals are inside the mitigation-monitoring zone, detonations shall be postponed until they have left the area. The observer on the vessel must be equipped with the proper optical equipment and lines of communication in order to recommend the decision to move forward with the mission.

(2) Monitoring shall occur pre-mission (for 30 minutes), throughout the mission, and post-mission (for 30 minutes). Post-mission monitoring shall concentrate on the area down current of the test site.
