
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### § 17.41 Special rules - birds.
####### i.e.,

(C) Grazing activities on public lands that occur on eastern black rail habitat and, that individually or cumulatively with other land management practices, do not maintain at least 50 percent of eastern black rail habitat,dense overhead cover, in any given calendar year within a management boundary.

(D) Long-term or permanent damage, fragmentation, or conversion of persistent emergent wetlands and the contiguous wetland-upland transition zone to other habitat types (such as open water) or land uses that do not support eastern black rail.

(iii) Possession and other acts with unlawfully taken eastern black rails. It is unlawful to possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship, by any means whatsoever, any eastern black rail that was taken in violation of section 9(a)(1)(B) and (C) of the Act or State laws.

(iv) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.21(b) for endangered wildlife.

(v) Possess and conduct other acts with unlawfully taken specimens, as set forth at § 17.21(d)(1) for endangered wildlife.

(vi) Engage in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.21(e) for endangered wildlife.

(vii) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.21(f) for endangered wildlife.
