
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.41 Special rules - birds.
####### Exceptions from prohibitions.

(2)

(i) All of the provisions of ยง 17.32 apply to the eastern black rail.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service, of the National Marine Fisheries Service, or of a State conservation agency that is operating a conservation program for the eastern black rail pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by his agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of his official duties, take eastern black rails.

(iii) Incidental take resulting from haying, mowing, or other mechanical treatment activities in persistent emergent wetlands that occur during the nesting and brooding periods is allowed if those activities:

(A) Are maintenance requirements to ensure safety and operational needs, including maintaining existing infrastructure such as firebreaks, roads, rights-of-way, levees, dikes, fence lines, airfields, and surface water irrigation infrastructure (e.g., head gates, ditches, canals, water control structures, and culverts); or

(B) Occur during the control of woody encroachment and other invasive plant species to restore degraded habitat.

(iv) Incidental take resulting from actions taken to control wildfires is allowed.

(v) Incidental take resulting from the establishment of new firebreaks (for example, to protect wildlands or manmade infrastructure) and new fence lines is allowed.

(vi) Incidental take resulting from prescribed burns, grazing, and mowing or other mechanical treatment activities in existing moist soil management units or prior converted croplands (e.g., impoundments for rice or other cereal grain production) is allowed.

(g)-(j) [Reserved]
