
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart N - Subpart N - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to U.S. Navy Construction at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Kittery, Maine
###### ยง 217.135 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### i.e.,

(d) PSOs must record all observations of marine mammals, regardless of distance from the pile/hole being driven/drilled or the construction activity taking place (DTH, rotary drilling, rock hammering), as well as additional data indicated in the reporting requirements.

(e) The Navy must conduct hydroacoustic data collection (sound source verification and propagation loss) as described in a LOA and in accordance with a hydroacoustic monitoring plan that must be approved by NMFS in advance of construction. This plan shall include acoustic monitoring inside the bubble curtain to measure construction generated noise levels.

(f) The harassment and/or shutdown zones may be modified with NMFS' approval following NMFS' acceptance of an acoustic monitoring report.

(g) The Navy must submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 90 work days of the completion of required monitoring for each portion of the project as well as a comprehensive summary report at the end of the project. The reports will detail the monitoring protocol and summarize the data recorded during monitoring. Final annual reports (each portion of the project and comprehensive) must be prepared and submitted within 30 days following resolution of any NMFS comments on the draft report. If no comments are received from NMFS within 30 days of receipt of the draft report, the report must be considered final. If comments are received, a final report addressing NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of comments.
