
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart N - Subpart N - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to U.S. Navy Construction at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Kittery, Maine
###### ยง 217.135 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### i.e.,

(1) PSOs must be independent (not construction personnel) and have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods.

(2) At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(3) Other PSOs may substitute relevant experience, education (degree in biological science or related field), or training for prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(4) Where a team of three PSOs are required, a lead observer or monitoring coordinator shall be designated. The lead observer must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization; and

(5) One PSO must be designated as lead PSO or monitoring coordinator. The lead PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(6) PSOs must work in shifts to reduce fatigue and ensure their ability to monitor for marine mammals.

(7) PSOs must be approved by NMFS prior to beginning any activity subject to this LOA.

(c) For all pile driving activities, a minimum of three PSOs must be stationed on boats, docks, or piers sufficient to monitor the harassment and shutdown zones, and as described in the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan.
