
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart P - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Ice Roads and Ice Trails Construction and Maintenance on Alaska's North Slope
###### ยง 217.155 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) All marine mammal monitoring must be conducted in accordance with Hilcorp and Eni's Marine Mammal Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (4MP). This plan may be modified throughout the life of the regulations upon NMFS review and approval.

(b) General monitoring measures will be implemented through the entire ice road/trail season including during construction, maintenance, use and decommissioning.

(1) If a ringed seal is observed within 50 m (164 ft) of the center of an ice road or trail, the operator's Environmental Specialist must be immediately notified with the information provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(i) The Environmental Specialist must relay the seal sighting location information to all ice road personnel and the company's office personnel responsible for wildlife interaction, following notification protocols described in the company-specific Wildlife Management Plan. All other data will be recorded and logged.

(ii) The Environmental Specialist or designated person must monitor the ringed seal to document the animal's location relative to the road/trail. All work that is occurring when the ringed seal is observed and the behavior of the seal during those activities must be documented until the animal is at least 50 m (150 ft) away from the center of the road/trail or is no longer observed.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) Additional monitoring measures after March 1st. In addition to the general monitoring measures listed in ยง 217.155(b), the following measures must also be implemented after March 1st:

(1) If an ice road or trail is being actively used, under daylight conditions with good visibility, a dedicated observer (not the vehicle operator) must conduct a survey along the sea ice road/trail to observe if any ringed seals are within 150 m (500 ft) of the roadway corridor. The following survey protocol must be implemented:

(i) Surveys must be conducted every other day during daylight hours;

(ii) Observers for ice road activities must have received the training described in ยง 217.154(a) and understand the applicable sections of the Wildlife Interaction Plan;

(iii) Observers for ice road activities must be capable of detecting, observing and monitoring ringed seal presence and behaviors, and accurately and completely recording data;

(iv) Observers must have no other primary duty than to watch for and report observations related to ringed seals during this survey; and

(v) If weather conditions become unsafe, the observer may be removed from the monitoring activity.
