
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart P - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Ice Roads and Ice Trails Construction and Maintenance on Alaska's North Slope
###### ยง 217.154 Mitigation requirements.
####### Additional mitigation measures after March 1st.

(c)In addition to the general mitigation measures listed in ยง 217.154(b), the following measures must also be implemented after March 1st:

(1) Ice road/trail construction, maintenance and decommissioning must be performed within the boundaries of the road/trail and shoulders, with most work occurring within the driving lane. To the extent practicable and when safety of personnel is ensured, equipment must travel within the driving lane and shoulder areas.

(2) Blading and snow blowing of ice roads must be limited to the previously disturbed ice road/shoulder areas to the extent safe and practicable. Snow must be plowed or blown from the ice road surface.

(3) In the event snow is accumulating on a road within a 50 m (164 ft) radius of an identified downwind seal or seal lair, operational measures must be used to avoid seal impacts, such as pushing snow further down the road before blowing it off the roadway. Vehicles must not stop within 50 m (164 ft) of identified seals or within 150 m (500 ft) of known seal lairs.

(4) To the extent practicable and when safety of personnel is ensured, tracked vehicle operation must be limited to the previously disturbed ice trail areas. When safety requires a new ice trail to be constructed after March 1st, construction activities such as drilling holes in the ice to determine ice quality and thickness, must be conducted only during daylight hours with good visibility.

(5) Ringed seal structures must be avoided by a minimum of 50 m (164 ft) during ice testing and new trail construction.

(6) Once the new ice trail is established, tracked vehicle operation must be limited to the disturbed area to the extent practicable and when safety of personnel is ensured.

(7) If a seal is observed on ice within 50 m (164 ft) of the centerline of the ice road/trail, the following mitigation measures must be implemented:

(i) Construction, maintenance or decommissioning activities associated with ice roads and trails must not occur within 50 m (164 ft) of the observed ringed seal, but may proceed as soon as the ringed seal, of its own accord, moves farther than 50 m (164 ft) distance away from the activities or has not been observed within that area for at least 24 hours; and
