
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart R - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to U.S. Navy Bulkhead Replacement/Repairs at Naval Station Newport in Newport, Rhode Island
###### ยง 217.175 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### i.e.,

(1) PSOs must be independent (not construction personnel) and have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods.

(2) At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(3) Other PSOs may substitute other relevant experience, education (degree in biological science or related field), or training for prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(4) Where a team of three or more PSOs is required, a lead observer or monitoring coordinator must be designated. The lead observer must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.

(5) PSOs must be approved by NMFS prior to beginning any activity subject to this LOA.

(c) The Navy will establish the following monitoring locations. For all pile driving activities, a minimum of one PSO will be assigned to each active pile driving location to monitor the shutdown zones. Trained PSOs will be placed at the best vantage point(s) practicable such as on nearby breakwaters, Gould Island, Coddington Point, or Taylor Point. Visual monitoring will be conducted by, at a minimum, by two PSOs. It is assumed that two to three PSOs would be sufficient to monitor the respective ROIs given the abundance of suitable vantage points. Any activity that would result in threshold exceedance at or more than 1,000 m would require a minimum of three PSOs to effectively monitor the entire ROI. However, additional monitors may be added if warranted by site conditions and/or the level of marine mammal activity in the area.

(d) PSOs must record all observations of marine mammals, regardless of distance from the pile being driven, as well as the additional data indicated in the reporting requirements.

(e) Acoustic monitoring will be conducted in accordance with the Acoustic Monitoring Plan. The Navy will conduct hydroacoustic data collection (sound source verification and propagation loss) in accordance with a hydroacoustic monitoring plan that must be approved by NMFS in advance of construction.

(f) The shutdown/disturbances zones may be modified with NMFS' approval following NMFS' acceptance of an acoustic monitoring report.

(g) The Navy will submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 90 calendar days of the completion of required monitoring for each portion of the project as well as a comprehensive summary report at the end of the project. The report will detail the monitoring protocol and summarize the data recorded during monitoring. Final annual reports (each portion of the project and comprehensive) must be prepared and submitted within 30 days following resolution of any NMFS comments on the draft report. If no comments are received from NMFS within 30 days of receipt of the draft report, the report must be considered final. If comments are received, a final report addressing NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of comments.
