
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart R - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to U.S. Navy Bulkhead Replacement/Repairs at Naval Station Newport in Newport, Rhode Island
###### ยง 217.174 Mitigation requirements.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,

(8) The Navy will establish shutdown zones for all pile driving activities. Shutdown zones are limited to 150 m from the point of noise generation. Any remaining area within estimated Level A harassment zones shall be considered part of the "disturbance zone,"the Level B harassment zone and, where present, the Level A harassment zone (PTS onset) beyond 150 m from the point of noise generation. For activities where the estimated Level A (PTS onset) harassment zones are smaller than 150 m, the disturbance zone shall include the entire region of influence (ROI),estimated Level A and Level B harassment zones). Work may proceed without cessation while marine mammals are in the disturbance zone and marine mammal behavior within the disturbance zone will be monitored and documented.

(9) The Navy will conduct monitoring to include the area within the Level B harassment zones (areas where SPLs are equal to or exceed the 160 dB rms threshold for impact driving and the 120 dB rms threshold during vibratory pile driving (disturbance zone).

(10) Pre-start clearance monitoring will be conducted during periods of visibility sufficient for the lead PSO to determine that the shutdown zones are clear of marine mammals. Pile driving may commence following 30 minutes of observation when the determination is made that the shutdown zones are clear of marine mammals.

(11) If pile driving is delayed or halted due to the presence of a marine mammal, the activity may not commence or resume until either the animal has voluntarily exited and been visually confirmed beyond the shutdown zone indicated or 15 minutes have passed without re-detection of the animal.

(12) The Navy will use soft start techniques when impact pile driving. Soft start requires contractors to provide an initial set of three strikes from the hammer at reduced energy, followed by a 30-second waiting period. Then two subsequent reduced-energy strike sets would occur. A soft start will be implemented at the start of each day's impact pile driving and at any time following cessation of impact pile driving for a period of 30 minutes or longer. Soft start is not required during vibratory pile driving activities.

(13) Pile driving activity must be halted upon observation of either a species entering or within the harassment zone, for which incidental take is not authorized, or a species for which incidental take has been authorized but the authorized number of takes has been met.

(b) [Reserved]
