
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart R - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to U.S. Navy Bulkhead Replacement/Repairs at Naval Station Newport in Newport, Rhode Island
###### ยง 217.174 Mitigation requirements.
####### e.g.,

(2) The Navy will follow mitigation procedures as described in this section. Should environmental conditions deteriorate such that marine mammals within the entire shutdown zone would not be visible (fog, heavy rain, night), the Holder shall delay pile driving and removal until observers are confident marine mammals within the shutdown zone could be detected.

(3) The Navy will ensure that construction supervisors and crews, the monitoring team, and relevant Navy staff are trained prior to the start of all activities subject to this rule, so that responsibilities, communication procedures, monitoring protocols, and operational procedures are clearly understood. New personnel joining during the project will be trained prior to commencing work.

(4) The Navy, construction supervisors and crews, PSOs, and relevant Navy staff will avoid direct physical interaction with marine mammals during construction activity. If a marine mammal comes within 10 m of such activity, operations will cease and vessels will reduce speed to the minimum level required to maintain steerage and safe working conditions, as necessary, to avoid direct physical interaction.

(5) The Navy will employ PSOs and establish monitoring locations as described in this rule and the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan. The Navy will monitor the project area to the maximum extent possible based on the required number of PSOs, required monitoring locations, and environmental conditions.
