
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart S - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Geophysical Survey Activities in the Gulf of Mexico
###### ยง 217.184 Mitigation requirements.
####### Shallow penetration surveys.

(c)(1) Shallow penetration surveys are defined as surveys using airgun arrays with total volume equal to or less than 1,500 in, single airguns, boomers, or equivalent sources.

(2) LOA-holders conducting shallow penetration surveys must follow the requirements defined for deep penetration surveys at ยง 217.184(b), with the following exceptions:

(i) Acoustic monitoring is not required for shallow penetration surveys.

(ii) Ramp-up for small airgun arrays must follow the procedure described above for large airgun arrays, but may occur over an abbreviated period of time. Ramp-up is not required for surveys using only a single airgun. For non-airgun sources, power should be increased as feasible to effect a ramp-up.

(iii) Two exclusion zones are defined, depending on the species and context. A standard exclusion zone encompassing the area at and below the sea surface out to a radius of 100 meters from the edges of the airgun array (if used) or from the acoustic source (0-100 m) is defined. For special circumstances (ยง 217.184(b)(6)(v)), the exclusion zone encompasses an extended distance of 500 meters (0-500 m).

(iv) The buffer zone encompasses the area at and below the sea surface from the edge of the 0-100 meter exclusion zone out to a radius of 200 meters from the edges of the airgun array (if used) or from the acoustic source (100-200 meters). The buffer zone is not applicable when the exclusion zone is greater than 100 meters.
