
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart W - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to Hampton Roads Connector Partners Construction at Norfolk, Virginia
###### § 217.214 Mitigation requirements.

(a) When conducting the activities identified in § 217.210(a), the mitigation measures contained in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.216 must be implemented. These mitigation measures shall include but are not limited to:

(1) A copy of any issued LOA must be in the possession of HRCP, its designees, and work crew personnel operating under the authority of the issued LOA.

(2) HRCP shall conduct briefings for construction supervisors and crews, the monitoring team, and HRCP staff prior to the start of all pile driving activity, and when new personnel join the work, in order to explain responsibilities, communication procedures, the marine mammal monitoring protocol, and operational procedures.

(3) For in-water heavy machinery work other than pile driving, if a marine mammal comes within 10 meters (m), HRCP shall cease operations and reduce vessel speed to the minimum level required to maintain steerage and safe working conditions.

(4) For all pile driving activity, HRCP shall implement a minimum shutdown zone of a 10 m radius around the pile. If a marine mammal comes within or approaches the shutdown zone, such operations shall cease.

(5) For all pile driving activity, HRCP shall implement shutdown zones with radial distances as identified in a LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.216. If a marine mammal comes within or approaches the shutdown zone, such operations shall cease.

(6) HRCP shall deploy protected species observers (observers) as indicated in its Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan approved by NMFS.

(7) For all pile driving activities, between one and four observers shall be stationed at the best vantage points practicable to monitor for marine mammals and implement shutdown/delay procedures.
