
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart W - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to Hampton Roads Connector Partners Construction at Norfolk, Virginia
###### ยง 217.215 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) HRCP shall submit a Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan to NMFS for approval in advance of construction.

(b) HRCP shall deploy observers as indicated in its approved Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan.

(c) Observers shall be trained in marine mammal identification and behaviors. Observers shall have no other construction-related tasks while conducting monitoring.

(d) HRCP shall monitor the Level B harassment zones and Level A harassment zones extending beyond the designated shutdown zones to the extent practicable.

(e) HRCP shall monitor the shutdown zones during all pile driving and removal activities.

(f) HRCP shall submit a draft annual monitoring report to NMFS within 90 work days of the completion of annual marine mammal monitoring. The report must detail the monitoring protocol and summarize the data recorded during monitoring. If no comments are received from NMFS within 30 days, the draft report will constitute the final report. If comments are received, a final report addressing NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of comments. Specifically, the report must include:

(1) Dates and times (begin and end) of all marine mammal monitoring;
