
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 217 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKE OF MARINE MAMMALS INCIDENTAL TO SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart W - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals Incidental to Hampton Roads Connector Partners Construction at Norfolk, Virginia
###### § 217.214 Mitigation requirements.
####### e.g.,

(11) Should environmental conditions deteriorate (fog, heavy rain) such that observers are unable to visibly detect marine mammals within the entire shutdown zone then HRCP shall delay pile driving and removal until observers are confident marine mammals within the shutdown zone could be detected.

(12) Monitoring shall be conducted by trained observers, who shall have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods. Trained observers shall be placed at the best vantage point(s) practicable to monitor for marine mammals and implement shutdown or delay procedures when applicable through communication with the equipment operator. HRCP shall adhere to the following additional observer qualifications:

(i) Independent observers are required;

(ii) At least one observer must have prior experience working as an observer;

(iii) Other observers may substitute education (degree in biological science or related field) or training for experience;

(iv) Where a team of three or more observers are required, one observer shall be designated as lead observer or monitoring coordinator. The lead observer must have prior experience working as an observer; and

(v) HRCP must submit PSO CVs for approval by NMFS prior to the beginning of pile driving and drilling.

(13) HRCP shall use soft start techniques for impact pile driving. Soft start for impact driving requires HRCP and those persons it authorizes to provide an initial set of three strikes at reduced energy, followed by a thirty-second waiting period, then two subsequent reduced energy three-strike sets. Soft start shall be implemented at the start of each day's impact pile driving and at any time following cessation of impact pile driving for a period of thirty minutes or longer.

(14) HRCP shall employ bubble curtain systems during impact driving of steel piles except under conditions where the water depth is less than 20 feet in depth. Bubble curtains must meet the following requirements:

(i) The bubble curtain must distribute air bubbles around 100 percent of the piling perimeter for the full depth of the water column.

(ii) The lowest bubble ring must be in contact with the mudline and/or rock bottom for the full circumference of the ring, and the weights attached to the bottom ring shall ensure 100 percent mudline and/or rock bottom contact. No parts of the ring or other objects shall prevent full mudline and/or rock bottom contact.

(iii) The bubble curtain must be operated such that there is proper (equal) balancing of air flow to all bubblers.

(iv) HRCP shall require that construction contractors train personnel in the proper balancing of air flow to the bubblers and corrections to the attenuation device to meet the performance standards specified in an LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and § 217.216. This shall occur prior to the initiation of pile driving activities.

(b) [Reserved]
