
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.42 Special rules - reptiles.
####### Review and restrictions.

(ii)The U.S. Scientific Authority will conduct a review every 2 years, using information in the biennial reports and other available information, to determine whether range country management programs are effectively achieving conservation benefits for the yacare caiman. Based on the best available information, we may restrict trade from a range country if we determine that the conservation or management status of threatened yacare caiman populations has changed, such that continued recovery of the population in that country may be compromised. Trade restrictions, as addressed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, may be implemented based on one or more of the following factors:

(A) Failure to submit the reports described above, or failure to respond to requests for additional information.

(B) A change in range country laws or regulations that lessens protection for yacare caiman.

(C) A change in range country management programs that lessens protection for the species.

(D) A documented decline in wild population numbers.

(E) A documented increase in poaching.

(F) A documented decline in habitat quality or quantity.

(G) Other natural or manmade factors affecting the species' recovery.
