
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart J - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy's Mariana Islands Training and Testing (MITT)
###### ยง 218.94 Mitigation requirements.
####### Mitigation zone and requirements.

(ii)(A) For Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, the mitigation zone must be 500 yd around the detonation site under positive control.

(B) For Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, the mitigation zone must be 1,000 yd around the detonation site during all activities using time-delay fuses.

(C) For divers, the mitigation zone must be the underwater detonation location, which is defined as the sea space within the divers' range of visibility but no further than the mitigation zone specified for Lookouts on small boats or aircraft (500 yd or 1,000 yd depending on the charge type).

(D) Prior to the initial start of the activity (when maneuvering on station for activities under positive control; 30 min for activities using time-delay firing devices), Navy Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations or fuse initiation.

(E) During the activity, Navy Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations or fuse initiation. While performing their normal duties during the activity, divers must observe the underwater detonation location for marine mammals. Divers must notify their supporting small boat or Range Safety Officer of marine mammal sightings at the underwater detonation location; if observed, the Navy must cease detonations or fuse initiation. To the maximum extent practicable depending on mission requirements, safety, and environmental conditions, Navy personnel must position boats near the mid-point of the mitigation zone radius (but outside of the detonation plume and human safety zone), must position themselves on opposite sides of the detonation location (when two boats are used), and must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location with one Lookout observing inward toward the detonation site and the other observing outward toward the perimeter of the mitigation zone. If used, Navy aircraft must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location to the maximum extent practicable. Navy personnel must not set time-delay firing devices to exceed 10 min.

(F) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the underwater detonation location or mitigation zone (as applicable) prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations or fuse initiation) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the detonation site; or the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zones (for Lookouts on small boats or aircraft) and the underwater detonation location (for divers) has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained and during activities using time-delay firing devices.
