
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart O - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy's Northwest Training and Testing (NWTT)
###### ยง 218.144 Mitigation requirements.
####### Coordination with Navy biologists.,1,2,3,4,e.g.,

(F)Navy event planners must coordinate with Navy biologists during the event planning process prior to conducting the activities listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(vii)(F)(), (), (), and () of this section. Navy biologists must work with NMFS and must initiate communication with the appropriate marine mammal detection networks to determine the likelihood of applicable marine mammal species presence in the planned training location. Navy biologists must notify event planners of the likelihood of species presence. To the maximum extent practical, Navy planners must use this information when planning specific details of the event (timing, location, duration) to avoid planning activities in locations or seasons where species presence is expected. The Navy must ensure environmental awareness of event participants. Environmental awareness will help alert participating crews to the possible presence of applicable species in the training location. Lookouts must use the information to assist visual observation of applicable mitigation zones and to aid in the implementation of procedural mitigation. Unmanned Underwater Vehicle Training events at the Navy 3 OPAREA, Manchester Fuel Depot, Crescent Harbor Explosive Ordnance Disposal Range, and Navy 7 OPAREA must be cancelled or moved to another training location if the presence of Southern Resident killer whales is reported through available monitoring networks during the event planning process, or immediately prior to the event, as applicable.
