
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart O - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy's Northwest Training and Testing (NWTT)
###### ยง 218.145 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### NWTT Annual Training Exercise Report and Annual Testing Activity Report.,etc.

(e)Each year, the Navy must submit two preliminary reports (Quick Look Reports) detailing the status of applicable sound sources within 21 days after the anniversary of the date of issuance of each LOA to the Director, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS. The Navy must also submit detailed reports (NWTT Annual Training Exercise Report and Annual Testing Activity Report) to the Director, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, within three months after the one-year anniversary of the date of issuance of the LOAs. NMFS will submit comments or questions on the reports, if any, within one month of receipt. The reports will be considered final after the Navy has addressed NMFS' comments, or one month after submittal of the draft if NMFS does not provide comments on the draft reports. The NWTT Annual Training Exercise Report and Annual Testing Activity Report can be consolidated with other exercise and activity reports from other range complexes in the Pacific Ocean for a single Pacific Training Exercise and Testing Activity Report, if desired. The annual reports must contain a summary of all sound sources used (total hours or quantity of each bin of sonar or other non-impulsive source; total annual number of each type of explosive; and total annual expended/detonated rounds (missiles, bombs, sonobuoys,) for each explosive bin). The annual reports will also contain both the current year's sonar and explosive use data as well as cumulative sonar and explosive use quantity from previous years' reports. Additionally, if there were any changes to the sound source allowance in a given year, or cumulatively, the report must include a discussion of why the change was made and include analysis to support how the change did or did not affect the analysis in the 2020 NWTT FSEIS/OEIS and MMPA final rule. The annual report must also include details regarding specific requirements associated with the mitigation areas listed in ยง 218.144(a)(2). The final annual/close-out report at the conclusion of the authorization period (year seven) will serve as the comprehensive close-out report and include both the final year annual incidental take compared to annual authorized incidental take as well as cumulative seven-year incidental take compared to seven-year authorized incidental take. The Annual Training Exercise Report and Annual Testing Activity Report must include the following information.
