
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart P - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy Training Activities in the Gulf of Alaska Study Area
###### ยง 218.150 Specified activity and geographical region.

(a) Regulations in this subpart apply only to the U.S. Navy (Navy) for the taking of marine mammals that occurs in the area described in paragraph (b) of this section and that occurs incidental to the activities listed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The Gulf of Alaska (GOA) Study Area is entirely at sea and is comprised of three areas: a TMAA, a warning area, and the WMA located south and west of the TMAA. The TMAA and WMA are temporary areas established within the GOA for ships, submarines, and aircraft to conduct training activities. The TMAA is a polygon roughly resembling a rectangle oriented from northwest to southeast, approximately 300 nautical miles (nmi; 556 km) in length by 150 nmi (278 km) in width, located south of Montague Island and east of Kodiak Island. The warning area overlaps and extends slightly beyond the northern corner of the TMAA. The WMA provides an additional 185,806 nmiof surface, sub-surface, and airspace training area to support activities occurring within the TMAA. The boundary of the WMA follows the bottom of the slope at the 4,000 m contour line.

(c) The taking of marine mammals by the Navy is only authorized if it occurs incidental to the Navy conducting training activities, including:

(1) Anti-Submarine Warfare; and

(2) Surface Warfare.
