
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart P - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy Training Activities in the Gulf of Alaska Study Area
###### ยง 218.155 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### Annual GOA Marine Species Monitoring Report.

(d)The Navy must submit an annual report of the GOA Study Area monitoring, which will be included in a Pacific-wide monitoring report and include results specific to the GOA Study Area, describing the implementation and results from the previous calendar year. Data collection methods must be standardized across Pacific Range Complexes including the Mariana Islands Training and Testing (MITT), Hawaii-Southern California Training and Testing (HSTT), Northwest Training and Testing (NWTT), and Gulf of Alaska (GOA) Study Areas to allow for comparison among different geographic locations. The report must be submitted to the Director, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, either within 3 months after the end of the calendar year, or within 3 months after the conclusion of the monitoring year, to be determined by the adaptive management process. NMFS will submit comments or questions on the report, if any, within 3 months of receipt. The report will be considered final after the Navy has addressed NMFS' comments, or 3 months after submittal if NMFS does not provide comments on the report. This report will describe progress of knowledge made with respect to intermediate scientific objectives within the GOA Study Area associated with the Integrated Comprehensive Monitoring Program. Similar study questions must be treated together so that progress on each topic can be summarized across all Navy ranges. The report need not include analyses and content that does not provide direct assessment of cumulative progress on the monitoring plan study questions. This will continue to allow the Navy to provide a cohesive monitoring report covering multiple ranges (as per Integrated Comprehensive Monitoring Program goals), rather than entirely separate reports for the GOA, NWTT, HSTT, and MITT Study Areas.
