
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 218 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart P - Taking and Importing Marine Mammals; U.S. Navy Training Activities in the Gulf of Alaska Study Area
###### ยง 218.155 Requirements for monitoring and reporting.
####### GOA Annual Training Report.,https://www.goaeis.com/

(e)Each year in which training activities are conducted in the GOA Study Area, the Navy must submit one preliminary report (Quick Look Report) to NMFS detailing the status of applicable sound sources within 21 days after the completion of the training activities in the GOA Study Area. Each year in which activities are conducted, the Navy must also submit a detailed report (GOA Annual Training Report) to the Director, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, within 3 months after completion of the training activities. NMFS must submit comments or questions on the report, if any, within one month of receipt. The report will be considered final after the Navy has addressed NMFS' comments, or one month after submittal if NMFS does not provide comments on the report. The annual reports must contain information about the major training exercise (MTE), including the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. The annual report, which is only required during years in which activities are conducted, must also contain cumulative sonar and explosive use quantity from previous years' reports through the current year. Additionally, if there were any changes to the sound source allowance in the reporting year, or cumulatively, the report must include a discussion of why the change was made and include analysis to support how the change did or did not affect the analysis in the GOA Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement/Overseas Environmental Impact Statement (FSEIS/OEIS) () and MMPA final rule (88 FR 690, January 4, 2023). The analysis in the detailed report must be based on the accumulation of data from the current year's report and data collected from previous annual reports. The final annual/close-out report at the conclusion of the authorization period (year seven) will also serve as the comprehensive close-out report and include both the final year annual use compared to annual authorization as well as a cumulative 7-year annual use compared to 7-year authorization. This report must also note any years in which training did not occur. NMFS must submit comments on the draft close-out report, if any, within 3 months of receipt. The report will be considered final after the Navy has addressed NMFS' comments, or 3 months after the submittal if NMFS does not provide comments. Information included in the annual reports may be used to inform future adaptive management of activities within the GOA Study Area. In addition to the information discussed above, the GOA Annual Training Report must include the following information.
