
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart A - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Southwest Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research
###### ยง 219.5 Mitigation requirements.
####### i.e.,

(3) SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph for use of purse seine gear. If one or more killer whales or small cetaceans (dolphin or porpoise) or five or more pinnipeds are observed within 500 m of the planned sampling location before setting the purse seine gear, SWFSC must either remain onsite or move on to another sampling location. If remaining onsite, the set must be delayed. If the animals depart or appear to no longer be at risk of interacting with the vessel or gear, a further observation period must be conducted. If no further observations are made or the animals still do not appear to be at risk of interaction, then the set may be made. If the vessel is moved to a different area, the move-on rule mitigation protocol would begin anew. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain at risk of interaction, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. Marine mammals that are sighted further than 500 m from the vessel must be monitored to determine their position and movement in relation to the vessel to determine whether the move-on rule mitigation protocol should be implemented. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions.
