
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart A - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Southwest Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research
###### ยง 219.5 Mitigation requirements.
####### Pelagic longline survey protocols.

(c)(1) SWFSC must deploy longline gear as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station.

(2) SWFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) no less than 15 minutes (or for the duration of transit between locations, if shorter than 15 minutes) prior to both deployment and retrieval of longline gear.

(3) SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph. If one or more marine mammals, with the exception of groups of five or fewer California sea lions, are observed within 1 nmi of the planned sampling location during the visual observation period, SWFSC must move on to another sampling location. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain within 1 nmi, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions but may not elect to conduct pelagic longline survey activity when animals remain within the 1-nmi zone.

(4) SWFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of gear deployment and retrieval. If marine mammals are sighted before the gear is fully deployed or retrieved, SWFSC must take the most appropriate action to avoid marine mammal interaction. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.

(5) If deployment or retrieval operations have been suspended because of the presence of marine mammals, SWFSC may resume such operations when practicable only when the animals are believed to have departed the 1 nmi area. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.

(6) SWFSC must implement standard survey protocols, including maximum soak durations and a prohibition on chumming.
