
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart A - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Southwest Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research
###### ยง 219.5 Mitigation requirements.
####### Trawl survey protocols.

(b)(1) SWFSC must conduct trawl operations as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station.

(2) SWFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) at least 15 minutes prior to beginning of net deployment (or for the amount of time to travel between stations if less than 15 minutes) but must also conduct monitoring during any pre-set activities including CTD casts and plankton or bongo net hauls.

(3) In the CCE, SWFSC must implement the move-on rule mitigation protocol, as described in this paragraph. If one or more marine mammals, with the exception of baleen whales, are observed within 1 nautical mile (nmi) of the planned sampling location during the visual observation period, SWFSC must move on to another sampling location. If, after moving on, marine mammals remain within 1 nmi, the SWFSC must move again or skip the station. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making these decisions but may not elect to conduct trawl survey activity when marine mammals other than baleen whales remain within the 1-nmi zone.
