
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart A - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Southwest Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research
###### ยง 219.5 Mitigation requirements.
####### i.e.,

(4) SWFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of time that trawl gear is in the water (throughout gear deployment, fishing, and retrieval). If marine mammals are sighted before the gear is fully removed from the water, SWFSC must take the most appropriate action to avoid marine mammal interaction. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision.

(5) If trawling operations have been suspended because of the presence of marine mammals, SWFSC may resume trawl operations when practicable only when the animals are believed to have departed the 1 nmi area. SWFSC may use best professional judgment in making this determination.

(6) SWFSC must implement standard survey protocols to minimize potential for marine mammal interactions, including maximum tow durations at target depth and maximum tow distance, and shall carefully empty the trawl as quickly as possible upon retrieval. Trawl nets must be cleaned prior to deployment.

(7) SWFSC must install and use a marine mammal excluder device at all times when the Nordic 264 trawl net or any other net is used for which the device is appropriate.

(8) SWFSC must install and use acoustic deterrent devices whenever any midwater trawl net is used, with two to four devices placed along the footrope and/or headrope of the net. SWFSC must ensure that the devices are operating properly before deploying the net.
