
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Northeast Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research in the Atlantic Coast Region
###### ยง 219.35 Mitigation requirements.
####### Gillnet survey protocols.

(e)(1) The NEFSC must deploy gillnet gear as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station;

(2) The NEFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) prior to both deployment and retrieval of the gillnet gear. When the vessel is on station during the soak, marine mammal watches must be conducted during the soak by scanning the surrounding waters with the naked eye and binoculars (or monocular);

(3) The NEFSC must implement the following "move-on rule." If marine mammals are sighted within 1 nmi of the planned location in the 15 minutes before gear deployment, the NEFSC and/or its cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains, may decide to move the vessel away from the marine mammal to a different section of the sampling area if the animal appears to be at risk of interaction with the gear based on best professional judgement. If, after moving on, marine mammals are still visible from the vessel, the NEFSC and/or its cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains may decide to move again or to skip the station;

(4) If marine mammals are sighted near the vessel during the soak and are determined to be at risk of interacting with the gear, then the NEFSC must carefully retrieve the gear as quickly as possible. The NEFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision;

(5) The NEFSC must implement standard survey protocols, including continuously monitoring the gillnet gear during soak time and removing debris with each pass as the net is reset into the water to minimize bycatch;

(6) The NEFSC must ensure that surveys deploy acoustic pingers on gillnets in areas where required for commercial fisheries. NEFSC must ensure that the devices are operating properly before deploying the net;

(7) NEFSC must maintain visual monitoring effort during the entire period of gear deployment or retrieval. If marine mammals are sighted during the soak and are deemed at risk of interaction, the gillnet must be pulled. If fishing operations are halted, operations resume when animal(s) have not been sighted within 15 minutes or are determined to no longer be at risk. In other instances, the station is moved or cancelled;

(8) NEFSC must ensure that cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains conducting gillnet surveys adhere to monitoring and mitigation requirements and must include required protocols in all survey instructions, contracts, and agreements;

(9) For the COASTSPAN gillnet surveys, the NEFSC will actively monitor for potential bottlenose dolphin entanglements by hand-checking the gillnet every 30 minutes or if a disturbance in the net is observed. In the unexpected case of a bottlenose dolphin entanglement resulting in mortality, NEFSC must request and arrange for expedited genetic sampling for stock determination. NEFSC must also photograph the dorsal fin and submit the image to the NMFS Southeast Stranding Coordinator for identification/matching to bottlenose dolphins in the Mid-Atlantic Bottlenose Dolphin Photo-Identification Catalog;

(10) NEFSC must pull gear immediately if disturbance in the nets is observed.

(11) All gillnets will be designed with minimal net slack and excess floating and trailing lines will be removed.

(12) NEFSC will set only new or fully repaired gill nets, and modify nets to avoid large vertical gaps between float line and net as well as lead line and net when set,

(13) On Observer Training cruises, acoustic pingers and weak links may be used on all gillnets consistent with the regulations and TRPs for commercial fisheries. NEFSC must ensure that surveys deploy acoustic deterrent devices on gillnets in areas where required for commercial fisheries. NEFSC must ensure that the devices are operating properly before deploying the net.
