
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 219 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Northeast Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Research in the Atlantic Coast Region
###### ยง 219.35 Mitigation requirements.
####### Pot and trap survey protocols.

(f)(1) The NEFSC must deploy pot gear as soon as is practicable upon arrival at the sampling station;

(2) The NEFSC must initiate marine mammal watches (visual observation) no less than 15 minutes prior to both deployment and retrieval of the pot and trap gear. Marine mammal watches must be conducted by scanning the surrounding waters with the naked eye and binoculars (or monocular). During nighttime operations, visual observation must be conducted using the naked eye and available vessel lighting;

(3) The NEFSC and/or its cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains must implement the following "move-on" rule. If marine mammals are sighted within 1 nmi of the planned location in the 15 minutes before gear deployment, the NEFSC and/or its cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains, as appropriate, may decide to move the vessel away from the marine mammal to a different section of the sampling area if the animal appears to be at risk of interaction with the gear, based on best professional judgement. If, after moving on, marine mammals are still visible from the vessel, the NEFSC may decide to move again or to skip the station;

(4) If marine mammals are sighted near the vessel during the soak and are determined to be at risk of interacting with the gear, then the NEFSC and/or its cooperating institutions, contracted vessels, or commercially-hired captains must carefully retrieve the gear as quickly as possible. The NEFSC may use best professional judgment in making this decision; and

(5) The NEFSC must ensure that surveys deploy gear fulfilling all pot/trap universal commercial gear configurations such as weak link requirements and marking requirements as specified by applicable take reduction plans as required for commercial pot/trap fisheries.
