
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Exceptions.

(2)No person may take this species, except in the following instances in accordance with applicable State fish and wildlife conservation laws and regulations relevant to protection of bull trout in effect on April 8, 1999.

(i) For educational purposes, scientific purposes, the enhancement of propagation or survival of the species, zoological exhibition, and other conservation purposes consistent with the Act;

(ii) Incidental to State-permitted recreational fishing activities, provided that any bull trout caught are immediately returned to the stream.

(iii) The exceptions in paragraphs (x)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section will be in effect until April 9, 2001. At that time, all take prohibitions of the Act will be reinstated for the Jarbidge River population segment unless exceptions to take prohibitions are otherwise provided through a subsequent special rule.

(3) Any violation of applicable State fish and wildlife conservation laws or regulations with respect to the taking of this species is also a violation of the Endangered Species Act.

(4) No person may possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, ship, import, or export, any means whatsoever, any such species taken in violation of this section or in violation of applicable State fish and conservation laws and regulations.

(5) It is unlawful for any person to attempt to commit, solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any offense defined in paragraphs (x)(2) through (4) of this section.
