
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Certificates of Exemption for Pre-Act Endangered Species Parts
###### ยง 222.202 Certificate renewal.

(a) Any person to whom a Certificate of Exemption has been issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service may apply to the Assistant Administrator for renewal of such certificate. Any person holding a valid Certificate of Exemption which was renewed after October 13, 1982, and was in effect on March 31, 1988, may apply to the Secretary for one renewal for a period not to exceed 5 years.

(b) The sufficiency of the application shall be determined by the Assistant Administrator in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. At least 15 days should be allowed for processing. When an application for a renewal has been received and deemed sufficient, the Assistant Administrator shall issue a Certificate of Renewal to the applicant as soon as practicable.

(c) The following information will be used as the basis for determining whether an application for renewal of a Certificate of Exemption is complete:

(1) Title: Application for Renewal of Certificate of Exemption.

(2) The date of application.

(3) The identity of the applicant, including complete name, original Certificate of Exemption number, current address, and telephone number. If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or association, set forth the details.

(4) The period of time for which a renewal of the Certificate of Exemption is requested. However, no renewal of Certificate of Exemption, or right claimed thereunder, shall be effective after the close of the 5-year period beginning on the date of the expiration of the previous renewal of the certificate of exemption.

(5)(i) A complete and detailed updated inventory of all pre-Act endangered species parts for which the applicant seeks exemption. Each item on the inventory must be identified by the following information: A unique serial number; the weight of the item to the nearest whole gram; and a detailed description sufficient to permit ready identification of the item. Small lots, not exceeding five pounds (2,270 grams), of scraps or raw material, which may include or consist of one or more whole raw whale teeth, may be identified by a single serial number and total weight. All finished scrimshaw items subsequently made from a given lot of scrap may be identified by the lot serial number plus additional digits to signify the piece number of the individual finished item. Identification numbers will be in the following format: 00-000000-0000. The first two digits will be the last two digits of the appropriate certificate of exemption number; the next six digits, the serial number of the individual piece or lot of scrap or raw material; and the last four digits, where applicable, the piece number of an item made from a lot of scrap or raw material. The serial numbers for each certificate holder's inventory must begin with 000001, and piece numbers, where applicable, must begin with 0001 for each separate lot.

(ii) Identification numbers may be affixed to inventory items by any means, including, but not limited to, etching the number into the item, attaching a label or tag bearing the number to the item, or sealing the item in a plastic bag, wrapper or other container bearing the number. The number must remain affixed to the item until the item is sold to an ultimate user, as defined in ยง 222.201(d).

(iii) No renewals will be issued for scrimshaw products in excess of any quantities declared in the original application for a Certificate of Exemption.

(6) A Certification in the following language: I hereby certify that the foregoing information is complete, true, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that this information is submitted for the purpose of obtaining a renewal of my Certificate of Exemption under the Endangered Species Act, as amended, and the Department of Commerce regulations issued thereunder, and that any false statement may subject me to the criminal penalties of 18 U.S.C. 1001, or to the penalties under the Act.

(7) Signature of the applicant.

(d) Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application for renewal, the applicant shall be notified of the deficiency in the application for renewal. If the application for renewal is not corrected and received by the Assistant Administrator within 30 days following the date of receipt of notification, the application for renewal shall be considered abandoned.
