
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Certificates of Exemption for Pre-Act Endangered Species Parts
###### ยง 222.205 Import and export requirements.

(a) Any fish and wildlife subject to the jurisdiction of the National Marine Fisheries Service and is intended for importation into or exportation from the United States, shall not be imported or exported except at a port(s) designated by the Secretary of the Interior. Shellfish and fishery products that are neither endangered nor threatened species and that are imported for purposes of human or animal consumption or taken in waters under the jurisdiction of the United States or on the high seas for recreational purposes are excluded from this requirement. The Secretary of the Interior may permit the importation or exportation at nondesignated ports in the interest of the health or safety of the species for other reasons if the Secretary deems it appropriate and consistent with the purpose of facilitating enforcement of the Act and reducing the costs thereof. Importers and exporters are advised to see 50 CFR part 14 for importation and exportation requirements and information.

(b) No pre-Act endangered species part shall be imported into the United States. A Certificate of Exemption issued in accordance with the provisions of this subpart confers no right or privilege to import into the United States any such part.

(c)(1) Any person exporting from the United States any pre-Act endangered species part must possess a valid Certificate of Exemption issued in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. In addition, the exporter must provide to the Assistant Administrator, in writing, not less than 10 days prior to shipment, the following information: The name and address of the foreign consignee, the intended port of exportation, and a complete description of the parts to be exported. No shipment may be made until these requirements are met by the exporter.

(2) The exporter must send a copy of the Certificate of Exemption, and any endorsements thereto, to the District Director of Customs at the port of exportation, which must precede or accompany the shipment in order to permit the appropriate inspection prior to lading. Upon receipt, the District Director may order such inspection, as deemed necessary; the District will clear the merchandise for export, prior to the lading of the merchandise. If they are satisfied that the shipment is proper and complies with the information contained in the certificate and any endorsement thereto. The certificate, and any endorsements, will be forwarded to the Chief of the Office of Enforcement for NMFS.

(3) No pre-Act endangered species part in compliance with the requirements of this subpart may be exported except at a port or ports designated by the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to ยง 222.103.

(4) Notwithstanding any provision of this subpart, it shall not be required that the Assistant Administrator authorizes the transportation in interstate or foreign commerce of pre-Act endangered species parts.
