
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Certificates of Exemption for Pre-Act Endangered Species Parts
###### ยง 222.201 General requirements.

(a) The Assistant Administrator may exempt any pre-Act endangered species part from the prohibitions of sections 9(a)(1)(A), 9(a)(1)(E), or 9(a)(1)(F) of the Act.

(1) No person shall engage in any activities identified in such sections of the Act that involve any pre-Act endangered species part without a valid Certificate of Exemption issued pursuant to this subpart B.

(2) No person may export, deliver, receive, carry, transport or ship in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity; or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any pre-Act finished scrimshaw product unless that person has been issued a valid Certificate of Exemption and the product or the raw material for such product was held by such certificate holder on October 13, 1982.

(3) Any person engaged in activities otherwise prohibited under the Act or regulations shall bear the burden of proving that the exemption or certificate is applicable, was granted, and was valid and in force at the time of the otherwise prohibited activity.

(b) Certificates of Exemption issued under this subpart are no longer available to new applicants. However, the Assistant Administrator may renew or modify existing Certificates of Exemptions as authorized by the provisions set forth in this subpart.

(c) Any person granted a Certificate of Exemption, including a renewal, under this subpart, upon a sale of any exempted pre-Act endangered species part, must provide the purchaser in writing with a description (including full identification number) of the part sold and must inform the purchaser in writing of the purchaser's obligation under paragraph (b) of this section, including the address given in the certificate to which the purchaser's report is to be sent.

(d) Any purchaser of pre-Act endangered species parts included in a valid Certificate of Exemption, unless an ultimate user, within 30 days after the receipt of such parts, must submit a written report to the address given in the certificate. The report must specify the quantity of such parts or products received, the name and address of the seller, a copy of the invoice or other document showing the serial numbers, weight, and descriptions of the parts or products received, the date on which such parts or products were received, and the intended use of such parts by the purchaser. The term "ultimate user", for purposes of this paragraph, means any person who acquired such endangered species part or product for his or her own consumption or for other personal use (including gifts) and not for resale.
