
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart A - Introduction and General Provisions
###### ยง 222.103 Federal/state cooperation in the conservation of endangered and threatened species.
####### Financial assistance and payments.

(c)(1) A state must enter into a Cooperative Agreement before financial assistance is approved by the Assistant Administrator for endangered or threatened species projects. Specifically, the Agreement must contain the actions that are to be taken by the Assistant Administrator and/or by the state, the benefits to listed species expected to be derived from these actions, and the estimated cost of these actions.

(2) Subsequent to such Agreement, the Assistant Administrator may further agree with a state to provide financial assistance in the development and implementation of acceptable projects for the conservation of endangered and threatened species. Documents to provide financial assistance will consist of an application for Federal assistance and an award or a contract. The availability of Federal funds shall be contingent upon the continued existence of the Cooperative Agreement and compliance with all applicable Federal regulations for grant administration and cost accounting principles.

(3)(i) The payment of the Federal share of costs incurred when conducting activities included under a contract or award shall not exceed 75 percent of the program costs as stated in the agreement. However, the Federal share may be increased to 90 percent when two or more states having a common interest in one or more endangered or threatened resident species, the conservation of which may be enhanced by cooperation of such states, jointly enter into an agreement with the Assistant Administrator.

(ii) The state share of program costs may be in the form of cash or in-kind contributions, including real property, subject to applicable Federal regulations.

(4) Payments of funds, including payment of such preliminary costs and expenses as may be incurred in connection with projects, shall not be made unless all necessary or required documents are first submitted to and approved by the Assistant Administrator. Payments shall only be made for expenditures reported and certified by the state agency. Payments shall be made only to the state office or official designated by the state agency and authorized under the laws of the state to receive public funds for the state.
