
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart C - General Permit Procedures
###### ยง 222.303 Issuance of permits.

(a)(1) No permit may be issued prior to the receipt of a written application unless an emergency pursuant to ยง 222.301(a)(2) exists, and a written variation from the requirements is recorded by the National Marine Fisheries Service.

(2) No representation of an employee or agent of the United States shall be construed as a permit unless it meets the requirements of a permit defined in ยง 222.102.

(3) Each permit shall bear a serial number. Upon renewal, such a number may be reassigned to the permittee to whom issued so long as the permittee maintains continuity of renewal.

(b) When an application for a permit received by the Assistant Administrator is deemed sufficient, the Assistant Administrator shall, as soon as practicable, publish a notice in theInformation received by the Assistant Administrator as a part of the application shall be available to the public as a matter of public record at every stage of the proceeding. An interested party, within 30 days after the date of publication of such notice, may submit to the Assistant Administrator written data, views, or arguments with respect to the taking, importation, or to other action proposed in the application, and may request a hearing in connection with the action to be taken thereon.

(c) If a request for a hearing is made within the 30-day period referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, or if the Assistant Administrator determines that a hearing would otherwise be advisable, the Assistant Administrator may, within 60 days after the date of publication of the notice referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, afford to such requesting party or parties an opportunity for a hearing. Such hearing shall also be open to participation by any interested members of the public. Notice of the date, time, and place of such hearing shall be published in thenot less than 15 days in advance of such hearing. Any interested person may appear at the hearing in person or through a representative and may submit any relevant material, data, views, comments, arguments, or exhibits. A summary record of the hearing shall be kept.

(d) Except as provided in subpart D to 15 CFR part 904, as soon as practicable but not later than 30 days after the close of the hearing. If no hearing is held, as soon as practicable but not later than 30 days from the publication of the notice in thethe Assistant Administrator shall issue or deny issuance of the permit. Notice of the decision of the Assistant Administrator shall be published in thewithin 10 days after the date of the issuance or denial and indicate where copies of the permit, if issued, may be obtained.

(e)(1) The Assistant Administrator shall issue the permit unless:

(i) Denial of the permit has been made pursuant to subpart D to 15 CFR part 904;

(ii) The applicant has failed to disclose material or information required, or has made false statements as to any material fact, in connection with the application;

(iii) The applicant has failed to demonstrate a valid justification for the permit or a showing of responsibility;

(iv) The authorization requested potentially threatens a fish or wildlife population; or

(v) The Assistant Administrator finds through further inquiry or investigation, or otherwise, that the applicant is not qualified.

(2) The applicant shall be notified in writing of the denial of any permit request, and the reasons thereof. If authorized in the notice of denial, the applicant may submit further information or reasons why the permit should not be denied. Such further information shall not be considered a new application. The final action by the Assistant Administrator shall be considered the final administrative decision of the Department of Commerce.

(f) If a permit is issued under ยง 222.308, the Assistant Administrator shall publish notice thereof in theincluding the Assistant Administrator's finding that such permit-

(1) Was applied for in good faith;

(2) Will not operate to the disadvantage of such endangered species; and

(3) Will be consistent with the purposes and policy set forth in section 2 of the Act.

(g) The Assistant Administrator may waive the 30-day period in an emergency situation where the health or life of an endangered animal is threatened and no reasonable alternative is available to the applicant. Notice of any such waiver shall be published by the Assistant Administrator in thewithin 10 days following the issuance of the permit.
