
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 222 - GENERAL ENDANGERED AND THREATENED MARINE SPECIES
##### Subpart C - General Permit Procedures
###### ยง 222.308 Permits for scientific purposes or for the enhancement of propagation or survival of species.
####### Application procedures.

(b)Any person desiring to obtain such a permit may make application therefor to the Assistant Administrator. Permits for marine mammals shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of part 216, subpart D of this chapter. Permits relating to sea turtles may involve the Fish and Wildlife Service, in which case the applicant shall follow the procedures set out in ยง 222.309. The following information will be used as the basis for determining whether an application is complete and whether a permit for scientific purposes or for enhancement of propagation or survival of the affected species should be issued by the Assistant Administrator. An application for a permit shall provide the following information and such other information that the Assistant Administrator may require:

(1) Title, as applicable, either-

(i) Application for permit for scientific purposes under the Act; or

(ii) Application for permit for the enhancement of the propagation or survival of the endangered species Under the Act.

(2) The date of the application.

(3) The identity of the applicant including complete name, address, and telephone number. If the applicant is a partnership or a corporate entity, set forth the details. If the endangered species is to be utilized by a person other than the applicant, set forth the name of that person and such other information as would be required if such person were an applicant.

(4) A description of the purpose of the proposed acts, including the following:

(i) A detailed justification of the need for the endangered species, including a discussion of possible alternatives, whether or not under the control of the applicant; and

(ii) A detailed description of how the species will be used.

(5) A detailed description of the project, or program, in which the endangered species is to be used, including the following:

(i) The period of time over which the project or program will be conducted;

(ii) A list of the names and addresses of the sponsors or cooperating institutions and the scientists involved;

(iii) A copy of the formal research proposal or contract if one has been prepared;

(iv) A statement of whether the proposed project or program has broader significance than the individual researcher's goals. For example, does the proposed project or program respond directly or indirectly to recommendation of any national or international scientific body charged with research or management of the endangered species? If so, how?; and

(v) A description of the arrangements, if any, for the disposition of any dead specimen or its skeleton or other remains in a museum or other institutional collection for the continued benefit to science.

(6) A description of the endangered species which is the subject of the application, including the following:

(i) A list of each species and the number of each, including the common and scientific name, the subspecies (if applicable), population group, and range;

(ii) A physical description of each animal, including the age, size, and sex;

(iii) A list of the probable dates of capture or other taking, importation, exportation, and other acts which require a permit for each animal and the location of capture or other taking, importation, exportation, and other acts which require a permit, as specifically as possible;

(iv) A description of the status of the stock of each species related insofar as possible to the location or area of taking;

(v) A description of the manner of taking for each animal, including the gear to be used;

(vi) The name and qualifications of the persons or entity which will capture or otherwise take the animals; and

(vii) If the capture or other taking is to be done by a contractor, a statement as to whether a qualified member of your staff (include name(s) and qualifications) will supervise or observe the capture or other taking. Accompanying such statement shall be a copy of the proposed contract or a letter from the contractor indicating agreement to capture or otherwise take the animals, should a permit be granted.

(7) A description of the manner of transportation for any live animal taken, imported, exported, or shipped in interstate commerce, including the following:

(i) Mode of transportation;

(ii) Name of transportation company;

(iii) Length of time in transit for the transfer of the animal(s) from the capture site to the holding facility;

(iv) Length of time in transit for any planned future move or transfer of the animals;

(v) The qualifications of the common carrier or agent used for transportation of the animals;

(vi) A description of the pen, tank, container, cage, cradle, or other devices used to hold the animal at both the capture site and during transportation;

(vii) Special care before and during transportation, such as salves, antibiotics, moisture; and

(viii) A statement as to whether the animals will be accompanied by a veterinarian or by another similarly qualified person, and the qualifications of such person.

(8) Describe the contemplated care and maintenance of any live animals sought, including a complete description of the facilities where any such animals will be maintained including:

(i) The dimensions of the pools or other holding facilities and the number, sex, and age of animals by species to be held in each;

(ii) The water supply, amount, and quality;

(iii) The diet, amount and type, for all animals;

(iv) Sanitation practices used;

(v) Qualifications and experience of the staff;

(vi) A written certification from a licensed veterinarian or from a recognized expert who are knowledgeable on the species (or related species) or group covered in the application. The certificate shall verify that the veterinarian has personally reviewed the amendments for transporting and maintaining the animal(s) and that, in the veterinarian's opinion, they are adequate to provide for the well-being of the animal; and

(vii) The availability in the future of a consulting expert or veterinarian meeting paragraph requirements of (b)(8)(vi) in this section.

(9) A statement of willingness to participate in a cooperative breeding program and maintain or contribute data to a stud book.

(10) A statement of how the applicant's proposed project or program will enhance or benefit the wild population.

(11) For the 5 years preceding the date of application, the applicant shall provide a detailed description of all mortalities involving species under the control of or utilized by the applicant and are either presently listed as endangered species or are taxonomically related within the Order to the species which is the subject of this application, including:

(i) A list of all endangered species and related species that are the subject of this application that have been captured, transported, maintained, or utilized by the applicant for scientific purposes or for the enhancement of propagation or survival of the affected species, and/or of related species that are captured, transported, maintained, or utilized by the applicant for scientific purposes or for enhancement of propagation or survival of the affected species;

(ii) The numbers of mortalities among such animals by species, by date, by location of capture, i.e., from which population, and the location of such mortalities;

(iii) The cause(s) of any such mortality; and

(iv) The steps which have been taken by applicant to avoid or decrease any such mortality.

(12) A certification in the following language: I hereby certify that the foregoing information is complete, true, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that this information is submitted for the purpose of obtaining a permit under the Endangered Species Act, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and that any false statement may subject me to the criminal penalties of 18 U.S.C. 1001, or to penalties under the Act.

(13) The applicant and/or an officer thereof must sign the application.

(14) Assistance in completing this application may be obtained by writing Chief, Endangered Species Division, Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 or calling the Office of Protected Resources at 301-713-1401. Allow at least 90 days for processing.
