
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 223 - THREATENED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Restrictions Applicable to Threatened Marine and Anadromous Species
###### ยง 223.207 Approved TEDs.
####### Excluder Panel.

(i)(Figure 5 to this part) The excluder panel of the Parker TED must be constructed of a single triangular piece of 8-inch (20.3 cm) stretched mesh webbing and two trapezoidal pieces of 4-inch (10.2-cm) stretched mesh webbing. The webbing must consist of number 48 (3-mm thick) or larger polypropylene or polyethylene webbing that is heat-set knotted or braided. The leading edge of the 8-inch (20.3-cm) mesh panel must be 36 meshes wide. The 8-inch (20.3-cm) mesh panel must be tapered on each side with all-bar cuts to converge on an apex, such that the length of each side is 36 bars. The leading edges of the 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh panels must be 8 meshes wide. The edges of the 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh panels must be cut with all-bar cuts running parallel to each other, such that the length of the inner edge is 72 bars and the length of the outer edge is 89 bars and the resulting fore-and-aft edge is 8 meshes deep. The two 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh panels must be sewn to the 8-inch (20.3-cm) mesh panel to create a single triangular excluder panel. The 72-bar edge of each 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh panel must be securely joined with twine to one of the 36-bar edges of the 8-inch (20.3-cm) mesh panel, tied with knots at each knot of the 4-inch (10.2-cm) webbing and at least two wraps of twine around each bar of 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh and the adjoining bar of the 8-inch (20.3-cm) mesh. The adjoining fore-and-aft edges of the two 4-inch (10.2-cm) mesh panels must be sewn together evenly.
