
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 223 - THREATENED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Restrictions Applicable to Threatened Marine and Anadromous Species
###### ยง 223.207 Approved TEDs.
####### Roller gear.

(5)Roller gear may be attached to the bottom of a TED to prevent chafing on the bottom of the TED and the trawl net. When a webbing flap is used in conjunction with roller gear, the webbing flap must be of a length such that no part of the webbing flap can touch or come in contact with any part of the roller gear assembly or the means of attachment of the roller gear assembly to the TED, when the trawl net is in its normal, horizontal position. Roller gear must be constructed according to one of the following design criteria:

(i) A single roller consisting of hard plastic shall be mounted on an axle rod, so that the roller can roll freely about the axle. The maximum diameter of the roller shall be 6 inches (15.24 cm), and the maximum width of the axle rod shall be 12 inches (30.4 cm). The axle rod must be attached to the TED by two support rods. The maximum clearance between the roller and the TED shall not exceed 1 inch (2.5 cm) at the center of the roller. The support rods and axle rod must be made from solid steel or solid aluminum rod no larger thaninch (1.28 cm) in diameter. The attachment of the support rods to the TED shall be such that there are no protrusions (lips, sharp edges, burrs, etc.) on the front face of the grid. The axle rod and support rods must lie entirely behind the plane of the face of the TED grid.

(ii) A single roller consisting of hard plastic tubing shall be tightly tied to the back face of the TED grid with rope or heavy twine passed through the center of the roller tubing. The roller shall lie flush against the TED. The maximum outside diameter of the roller shall be 3inches (8.0 cm), the minimum outside diameter of the roller shall be 2 inches (5.1 cm), and the maximum length of the roller shall be 12 inches (30.4 cm). The roller must lie entirely behind the plane of the face of the grid.
