
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 223 - THREATENED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Restrictions Applicable to Threatened Marine and Anadromous Species
###### ยง 223.207 Approved TEDs.
####### Revision of generic design criteria, and approval of TEDs, of allowable modifications of hard TEDs, and of special hard TEDs.

(e)(1) The Assistant Administrator may revise the generic design criteria for hard TEDs set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, may approve special hard TEDs in addition to those listed in paragraph (b) of this section, may approve allowable modifications to hard TEDs in addition to those authorized in paragraph (d) of this section, or may approve other TEDs, by regulatory amendment, if, according to a NMFS-approved scientific protocol, the TED demonstrates a sea turtle exclusion rate of 97 percent or greater (or an equivalent exclusion rate). Two such protocols have been published by NMFS (52 FR 24262, June 29, 1987; and 55 FR 41092, October 9, 1990) and will be used only for testing relating to hard TED designs. Testing under any protocol must be conducted under the supervision of the Assistant Administrator, and shall be subject to all such conditions and restrictions as the Assistant Administrator deems appropriate. Any person wishing to participate in such testing should contact the Director, Southeast Fisheries Science Center, NMFS, 75 Virginia Beach Dr., Miami, FL 33149-1003.

(2) Upon application, the Assistant Administrator may issue permits, subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Assistant Administrator deems appropriate, authorizing public or private experimentation aimed at improving shrimp retention efficiency of existing approved TEDs and at developing additional TEDs, or conducting fishery research, that would otherwise be subject to ยง 223.206(d)(2). Applications should be made to the Southeast Regional Administrator (see ยง 222.102 definition of "Southeast Regional Administrator").
