
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Biennial reports.,see

(v)Littoral state governments wishing to export specimens of beluga sturgeon caviar or meat to the United States under this special rule must provide to the Service's Division of Scientific Authority reports containing the most recent information available on the status of the species, following the information guidelines specified below. The Service must receive the first report no later than December 1, 2005, and every 2 years thereafter on the anniversary of that date. Starting in December 2005, and thereafter on a biennial basis, the Service will review the national reports within 90 days of receiving them and any other pertinent information on wild beluga sturgeon conservation. If any elements of the biennial reports are missing or unclear, the Service will ask the appropriate littoral states to provide additional information within 60 days of the date we contact them. If the littoral states fail to respond or fail to submit biennial reports by the specified deadline, we will immediately suspend trade with the given littoral states (paragraph (y)(7) of this section for details on how such a suspension would be instituted and announced). Submission of documents in English may help expedite the Service's review. We propose to use these reviews to determine whether littoral state management programs are leading to recovery of wild beluga sturgeon stocks. For each littoral state, the following information must be provided in the biennial reports:
