
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 223 - THREATENED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Restrictions Applicable to Threatened Marine and Anadromous Species
###### ยง 223.301 Special rules - marine and anadromous fishes.
####### de minimus,de minimus

(B) NMFS will prepare a technical memorandum that describes the methodology to ensure that CV spring-run Chinook salmon originating from reintroduction to the San Joaquin River do not cause more thanwater supply reductions, additional storage releases, or bypass flows associated with the operations of the CVP and SWP under any ESA section 7 biological opinion or section 10 permit that is in effect at the time for operations of the CVP and SWP. To the maximum extent feasible, NMFS will develop this technical memorandum in coordination with and with opportunity for comment by interested parties. The first technical memorandum will be completed before CV spring-run Chinook salmon will be released in the San Joaquin River. Prior to January 15 of each succeeding year, NMFS will update the technical memorandum and, if required by the methodology, determine the share of take at the CVP and SWP facilities that originates from the reintroduction to the San Joaquin River. This share of take of CV spring-run Chinook salmon reintroduced to the San Joaquin River will be deducted from or otherwise used to adjust the operational triggers and incidental take statements associated with any biological opinion that is in effect at the time for operations of the CVP and SWP facilities. NMFS will use best available commercial or scientific information to inform these calculations. The technical memorandum and annual determination will ensure that the reintroduction of CV spring-run Chinook salmon will not result in more thanwater supply reductions, additional storage releases or bypass flows of the CVP and SWP operations under any biological opinion or ESA section 10 permit that is in effect at the time for operations of the CVP and SWP on unwilling persons or entities diverting or receiving water pursuant to applicable State and Federal laws.
