
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 223 - THREATENED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### Subpart B - Restrictions Applicable to Threatened Marine and Anadromous Species
###### ยง 223.301 Special rules - marine and anadromous fishes.
####### San Joaquin River Central Valley (CV) spring-run Chinook Salmon Experimental Population (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha).

(b)(1) The San Joaquin River CV spring-run Chinook salmon population identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is designated as a nonessential experimental population under section 10(j) of the ESA.

(2) San Joaquin River CV Spring-run Chinook Salmon Experimental Population. All CV spring-run Chinook salmon, including those that have been released or propagated, naturally or artificially, within the experimental population area in the San Joaquin River as defined here are considered part of the San Joaquin River experimental population. The boundaries of this experimental population area include the San Joaquin River from Friant Dam downstream to its confluence with the Merced River, delineated by a line between decimal latitude and longitude coordinates: 37.348930&#xB0; N, 120.975174&#xB0; W and 37.349099&#xB0; N, 120.974749&#xB0; W, as well as all sloughs, channels, floodways, and waterways connected with the San Joaquin River that allow for CV spring-run Chinook salmon access, but excluding the Merced River. Those portions of the Kings River that connect with the San Joaquin River during high water years are also part of the experimental population area.

(3) Prohibitions. Except as expressly allowed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, all prohibitions of section 9(a)(1) of the ESA (16 U.S.C. 1538(a)(1)), except 9(a)(1)(C), apply to fish that are part of the threatened, nonessential experimental population of CV spring-run Chinook salmon identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) Exceptions to the Application of Section 9 Take Prohibitions in the Experimental Population Area. The following forms of take in the experimental population area identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are not prohibited by this section:

(i) Any taking of CV spring-run Chinook salmon provided that it is unintentional, not due to negligent conduct, and incidental to, and not the purpose of, the carrying out of an otherwise lawful activity.

(ii) Any taking of CV spring-run Chinook salmon by an employee or designee of NMFS, the USFWS, other Federal resource management agencies, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, or any other governmental entity if in the course of their duties it is necessary to: aid a sick, injured or stranded fish; dispose of a dead fish; or salvage a dead fish which may be useful for scientific study. Any agency acting under this provision must report to NMFS (seesection) the numbers of fish handled and their status on an annual basis.

(iii) Any taking of CV spring-run Chinook salmon for scientific research or enhancement purposes by a person or entity with a valid section ESA 10(a)(1)(A) permit issued by NMFS and a valid incidental take permit, consistency determination, or other take authorization issued by the CDFW.

(iv) Any taking of CV spring-run Chinook salmon for scientific research purposes by the CDFW provided that:

(A) Scientific research activities involving purposeful take are conducted by employees or contractors of CDFW or as a part of a monitoring and research program overseen by or coordinated with CDFW.

(B) CDFW provides for NMFS' review and approval a list of all scientific research activities involving direct take planned for the coming year, including an estimate of the total direct take that is anticipated, a description of the study design, including a justification for taking the species and a description of the techniques to be used, and a point of contact.

(C) CDFW annually provides to NMFS the results of scientific research activities directed at fish in the experimental population, including a report of the direct take resulting from the studies and a summary of the results of such studies.

(D) Scientific research activities that may incidentally take fish in the experimental population are either conducted by CDFW personnel, or are in accord with a permit issued by the CDFW.

(E) CDFW provides NMFS annually, for its review and approval, a report listing all scientific research activities it conducts or permits that may incidentally take fish in the experimental population during the coming year. Such reports shall also contain the amount of incidental take occurring in the previous year's scientific research activities and a summary of the results of such research.

(F) Electro fishing in any body of water known or suspected to contain fish in the experimental population is conducted in accordance with NMFS "Guidelines for Electrofishing Waters Containing Salmonids Listed Under the Endangered Species Act" (NMFS, 2000a).

(G) CDFW provides NMFS, for its review and approval, the Monitoring and Analysis Plan produced by the San Joaquin River Restoration Program, including an estimate of the direct and indirect take that may result from all scientific research activities in that plan for the period from January 30, 2014 until January 30, 2015.

(H) NMFS' approval of a research program shall be a written approval by the NMFS West Coast Regional Administrator.

(5) Limited Exception to the Application of Section 9(a)(1) Take Prohibitions Outside of the Experimental Population Area. The following forms of take are not prohibited:
