
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Can aquacultured beluga sturgeon products be exempt from threatened species permits if the products originate outside the littoral states?,i.e.

(5)We will consider exemptions from threatened species permits for beluga caviar and meat obtained from aquaculture facilities outside the littoral states. These exemptions will be for individual facilities, and would allow aquacultured beluga caviar and meat originating from these facilities to be imported, exported, re-exported, or traded in interstate and foreign commerce without threatened species permits issued under Section 10 of the Act. Aquaculture facilities within the United States could also be exempt from prohibitions against take for purposes of harvesting caviar or meat (, killing of beluga sturgeon), or for conducting activities involving research to enhance the survival or propagation of the species. Facilities outside the littoral states wishing to obtain such exemptions must submit a written request to the Division of Management Authority at the address provided at 50 CFR 2.1(b) and provide information that shows, at a minimum, all of the following:

(i) The facility in question is using best management practices to prevent the escape of beluga sturgeon and disease pathogens into local ecosystems, as certified by the relevant regulatory agency. In the case of the United States, the relevant regulatory authority will be the state agency with jurisdiction over aquaculture. In the case of foreign aquaculture facilities outside the littoral states, the relevant regulatory agency will be the designated CITES Management Authority with jurisdiction over sturgeon. Best management practices that affect the applicant's facility must be part of the application and available for Service review.

(ii) The facility in question has entered into a formal agreement with one or more littoral states to study, protect, or otherwise enhance the survival of wild beluga sturgeon. Copies of such agreements must be provided.

(iii) The facility in question does not rely on wild beluga sturgeon for broodstock. Proof of broodstock origin, including relevant CITES permits that accompanied broodstock specimens upon import into the United States, must be part of the application.

(iv) Exemptions granted under paragraph (y)(5) of this section shall not apply to trade (import, export, re-export, or interstate and foreign commerce) in live beluga sturgeon, and may be revoked at any time if the Service determines that any of the criteria shown in paragraphs (y)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section are not met by the facility. Applicants will be required to submit biennial reports on their compliance with paragraphs (y)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, starting on the second anniversary of any programmatic exemption granted to the applicants. These biennial reports must show that exempted facilities have actively cooperated with one or more littoral states in a meaningful way to support beluga sturgeon conservation. Any beluga caviar originating from aquaculture facilities outside the littoral states must comply with CITES caviar-labeling requirements, even in interstate commerce within the United States. We will publish an information notice if the Service grants a programmatic exemption to any aquaculture facility outside the littoral states, and announce such actions through our website and posting notices at our wildlife ports of entry. We will follow the provisions of paragraph (y)(7) of this section to announce restrictions or revocations of such programmatic exemptions, based on our review of facilities' biennial reports.
