
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 224 - ENDANGERED MARINE AND ANADROMOUS SPECIES
##### ยง 224.103 Special prohibitions for endangered marine mammals.
###### Exceptions.

(3)The following exceptions apply to this section:

(i) The prohibitions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section do not apply to

(A) Federal Government vessels operating in the course of their official duty or state and local government vessels when engaged in official duties involving law enforcement, search and rescue, or public safety.

(B) Vessels participating with a Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) and following a Traffic Separation Scheme or complying with a VTS Measure of Direction. This also includes support vessels escorting ships in the traffic lanes, such as tug boats.

(C) Vessels engaged in an activity, such as scientific research, authorized through a permit issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service under part 222, subpart C, of this chapter (General Permit Procedures) or through a similar National Marine Fisheries Service authorization.

(D) Vessels lawfully engaged in commercial or treaty Indian fishing that are actively setting, retrieving, or closely tending fishing gear.

(E) Vessel operations necessary to avoid an imminent and serious threat to a person, vessel or the environment, including when necessary for overall safety of navigation and to comply with the Navigation Rules.

(ii) [Reserved]
