
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Huso huso

(E) A decline in wildpopulations, as documented in national reports outlined above or the scientific literature, that goes unaddressed by regional or national management programs;

(F) Failure to address poaching or smuggling in beluga sturgeon, their parts, or products in the littoral states or re-exporting countries, as documented in national reports described above or other law enforcement sources;

(G) Failure of the littoral states to address the loss of beluga sturgeon habitat quality or quantity;

(H) Failure of the littoral states or re-exporting countries to follow the caviar-labeling recommendations of the CITES Parties (currently embodied in Resolution Conf. 12.7);

(I) Recommendations from the CITES Standing Committee to suspend trade in beluga sturgeon from one or more countries; or

(J) An aquaculture facility outside the littoral states has been issued a programmatic exemption from threatened species permits under paragraph (y)(5) of this section, but is not abiding by the provisions of paragraphs (y)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, or, based on the biennial reports required under paragraph (y)(5) of this section, has not actively cooperated with one or more littoral states in a meaningful way to support beluga sturgeon conservation.

(K) Any other natural or human-induced phenomenon that threatens the survival or recovery of beluga sturgeon.

(ii) We will publish an information notice in theas well as on our Web site and at our wildlife ports of entry, if the Service's Division of Scientific Authority administratively suspends or restricts trade in beluga sturgeon products after determining that wild beluga sturgeon stock status worsens or threats to the species increase. This information notice will provide:

(A) The problem(s) identified in the biennial reports or other salient documents.

(B) The scope of the problem and the number of nations involved.

(C) The scope of the trade restriction or suspension we are imposing, including products covered, duration of the restriction or suspension, and criteria for lifting it and reinstating any exemption to threatened species permits.

(D) How the public can provide input, make comments, and recommend remedial action to withdraw the trade measures imposed.
