
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Oncorhynchus gilae

(z) Gila trout (). (1) Except as noted in paragraph (z)(2) of this section, all prohibitions of 50 CFR 17.31 and exemptions of 50 CFR 17.32 apply to the Gila trout.

(i) No person may possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, ship, import, or export, by any means whatsoever, any such species taken in violation of this section or in violation of applicable fish and conservation laws and regulations promulgated by the States of New Mexico or Arizona.

(ii) It is unlawful for any person to attempt to commit, solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed any offense listed in paragraph (z)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) In the following instances you may take Gila trout in accordance with applicable State fish and wildlife conservation laws and regulations to protect this species in the States of New Mexico or Arizona:

(i) Fishing activities authorized under New Mexico or Arizona laws and regulations; and

(ii) Educational purposes, scientific purposes, the enhancement of propagation or survival of the species, zoological exhibition, and other conservation purposes consistent with the Endangered Species Act.

(3) The four relict populations of Gila trout (Main Diamond Creek, South Diamond Creek, Spruce Creek, and Whiskey Creek) will not be opened to fishing.

(4) Any changes to State recreational fishing regulations will be made by the States in collaboration with the Service.

(5) Any violation of State applicable fish and wildlife conservation laws or regulations with respect to the taking of this species is also a violation of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended.
