
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.205 Critical habitat for Snake River sockeye salmon, Snake River fall chinook salmon, and Snake River spring/summer chinook salmon.
###### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

The following areas consisting of the water, waterway bottom, and adjacent riparian zone of specified lakes and river reaches in hydrologic units presently or historically accessible to listed Snake River salmon (except reaches above impassable natural falls, and Dworshak and Hells Canyon Dams). Adjacent riparian zones are defined as those areas within a horizontal distance of 300 feet (91.4 m) from the normal line of high water of a stream channel (600 feet or 182.8 m, when both sides of the stream channel are included) or from the shoreline of a standing body of water. The complete text delineating critical habitat for each species follows. Hydrologic units (table 3) are those defined by the Department of the Interior (DOI), U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) publication, "Hydrologic Unit Maps, United States Geological Survey Water Supply Paper 2294, 1987", and the following DOI, USGS, 1:500,000 scale hydrologic unit map: State of Oregon, 1974; State of Washington, 1974; State of Idaho, 1974, which are incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the USGS publication and maps may be obtained from the USGS, Map Sales, Box 25286, Denver, CO 80225. Copies may be inspected at NMFS, Endangered Species Branch, Environmental and Technical Services Division, 911 NE. 11th Avenue, room 620, Portland, OR 97232, NMFS, Office of Protected Resources, 1335 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
