
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.209 Critical habitat for hawksbill turtle.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

Critical habitat is designated to include all river reaches accessible to listed coho within the range of the ESUs listed, except for reaches on Indian lands defined in Tables 5 and 6 to this part. Critical habitat consists of the water, substrate, and adjacent riparian zone of estuarine and riverine reaches in hydrologic units and counties identified in Tables 5 and 6 to this part for all of the coho ESUs listed in this section. Accessible reaches are those within the historical range of the ESUs that can still be occupied by any life stage of coho salmon. Inaccessible reaches are those above longstanding, naturally impassable barriers (i.e., natural waterfalls in existence for at least several hundred years) and specific dams within the historical range of each ESU identified in Tables 5 and 6 to this part. Hydrologic units are those defined by the Department of the Interior (DOI), U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) publication, "Hydrologic Unit Maps," Water Supply Paper 2294, 1987, and the following DOI, USGS, 1:500,000 scale hydrologic unit maps: State of Oregon, 1974 and State of California, 1978 which are incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the USGS publication and maps may be obtained from the USGS, Map Sales, Box 25286, Denver, CO 80225. Copies may be inspected at NMFS, Protected Resources Division, 525 NE Oregon Street-Suite 500, Portland, OR 97232-2737, or NMFS, Office of Protected Resources, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
