
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 12 - SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Forfeiture Proceedings
###### ยง 12.23 Administrative forfeiture proceedings.
####### Contents.

(B)The notice shall be in substantially the same form as a complaint for forfeiture filed in United States District Court. The notice shall describe the property, including, in the case of motor vehicles, the license, registration, motor, and serial numbers. The notice shall state the time and place of seizure, as well as the reason therefor, and shall specify the value of the property as determined under ยง 12.12. The notice shall contain a specific reference to the provisions of the laws or regulations allegedly violated and under which the property is subject to forfeiture. The notice shall state that any person desiring to claim the property must file a claim and a bond in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and shall state that if a proper claim and bond are not received by the proper office within the time prescribed by such paragraph, the property will be declared forfeited to the United States and disposed of according to law. The notice shall also advise interested persons of their right to file a petition for remission of forfeiture in accordance with ยง 12.24.
