
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.44 Special rules - fishes.
####### Exceptions from prohibitions for specific types of incidental take.

(3)You may take sickle darter while carrying out the following legally conducted activities in accordance with this paragraph (ee)(3):

(i) Channel restoration projects that create natural, physically stable, ecologically functioning streams (or stream and wetland systems) and that take place between April 1 and January 31. These projects can be accomplished using a variety of methods, but the desired outcome is a natural channel with low shear stress (force of water moving against the channel); bank heights that enable reconnection to the floodplain; a reconnection of surface and groundwater systems, resulting in perennial flows in the channel; riffles and pools composed of existing soil, rock, and wood instead of large imported materials; low compaction of soils within adjacent riparian areas; and inclusion of riparian wetlands.

(ii) Bank stabilization projects that use bioengineering methods to replace pre-existing, bare, eroding stream banks with vegetated, stable stream banks, thereby reducing bank erosion and instream sedimentation and improving habitat conditions for the species and that take place between April 1 and January 31. Following these bioengineering methods, stream banks may be stabilized using native species live stakes (live, vegetative cuttings inserted or tamped into the ground in a manner that allows the stake to take root and grow), native species live fascines (live branch cuttings, usually willows, bound together into long, cigar shaped bundles), or native species brush layering (cuttings or branches of easily rooted tree species layered between successive lifts of soil fill). Native species vegetation includes woody and herbaceous species appropriate for the region and habitat conditions. These methods will not include the sole use of quarried rock (riprap) or the use of rock baskets or gabion structures.

(iii) Bridge and culvert replacement/removal projects or low head dam removal projects that remove migration barriers or generally allow for improved upstream and downstream movements of sickle darters while maintaining normal stream flows, preventing bed and bank erosion, and improving habitat conditions for the species and that take place between April 1 and January 31.

(iv) Transportation projects that provide for fish passage at stream crossings and that take place between April 1 and January 31.

(v) Silvicultural practices and forest management activities that implement State-approved best management practices. In order for this exception to apply to forestry-related activities, these best management practices must achieve all of the following:

(A) Establish a streamside management zone alongside the margins of each waterway.

(B) Restrain visible sedimentation caused by the forestry-related activity from entering the waterway.

(C) Maintain native groundcover within the streamside management zone of the waterway, and promptly re-establish native groundcover if disturbed.

(D) Limit installation of vehicle or equipment crossings of the waterway to only where necessary for the forestry-related activity. Such crossings must:
