
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.214 Critical habitat for Gulf sturgeon.
###### Unit 14: Suwannee Sound in Dixie and Levy Counties, Florida.
####### et al.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The GOM DPS is divided into three salmon habitat recovery units (SHRUs) within the range of the GOM DPS: These are the Downeast Coastal SHRU, the Penobscot Bay SHRU, and the Merrymeeting Bay SHRU. Critical habitat is being considered only in specific areas currently occupied by the species. Critical habitat specific areas are identified by hydrological unit codes (HUC) and counties within the States of Maine. Hydrological units are those defined by the Department of Interior (DOI), U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) publication, "Hydrologic Unit Maps" Water Supply Paper (Seaber, 1994) and the following DOI, USGS 1:500,000 scale hydrologic unit map: State of Maine. These documents are incorporated by reference. The incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the USGS publication and the maps may be obtained from the USGS, Map Sales, Box 25286, Denver, CO 80225. Copies may be inspected at NMFS, Protected Resources Division, Office of Protected Resources, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) Critical habitat is designated in the Maine counties and towns for the three SHRUs described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. The textual descriptions of critical habitat for each SHRU are included in paragraphs (b)(3) through (6) of this section, and these descriptions are the definitive source for determining the critical habitat boundaries. A general location map (Figure 1) is provided at the end of paragraph (b)(2) and is for general guidance purposes only, and not as a definitive source for determining critical habitat boundaries.
