
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.214 Critical habitat for Gulf sturgeon.
###### Unit 14: Suwannee Sound in Dixie and Levy Counties, Florida.
####### Charlotte Harbor Estuary Unit.

(1)The Charlotte Harbor Estuary Unit is located within Charlotte and Lee Counties. The unit includes Charlotte Harbor, Gasparilla Sound, Pine Island Sound, Matlacha Pass, San Carlos Bay, Estero Bay, and the Caloosahatchee River. The unit is defined by the following boundaries. It is bounded by the Peace River at the eastern extent at the mouth of Shell Creek at 81&#xB0;59.467&#x2032; W, and the northern extent of the Charlotte Harbor Preserve State Park at 26&#xB0;58.933&#x2032; N. At the Myakka River the unit is bounded by the SR-776 Bridge and in Gasparilla Sound by the SR-771 Bridge. The COLREGS-72 lines between Gasparilla Island, Lacosta Island, North Captiva Island, Captiva Island, Sanibel Island, and the northern point of Estero Island are used as the coastal boundary for the unit. The southern extent of the unit is the Estero Bay Aquatic Preserve, which is bounded on the south by the Lee/Collier County line. Inland waters are bounded by SR-867 (McGregor Boulevard) from Punta Rassa Road to SR-80 near Fort Myers, then by SR-80 (Palm Beach Boulevard) to Orange River Boulevard, then by Orange River Boulevard to Buckingham Road, then by Buckingham Road to SR-80, and then following SR-80 until it is due south of the Franklin Lock and Dam (S-79), which is the eastern boundary on the Caloosahatchee River and a structural barrier for sawfish access. Additional inland water boundaries north and west of the lock are bounded by North Franklin Lock Road to North River Road, then by North River Road to SR-31, then by SR-31 to SR-78 near Cape Coral, then by SR-78 to SR-765, then by SR-765 to US-41, then by US-41 to US-17 (Marion Avenue) in Punta Gorda, then by US-17 to Riverside Drive, and then by Riverside Drive to the eastern extent of the Peace River at 81&#xB0;59.467&#x2032; W. From the northern extent of the Charlotte Harbor Preserve State Park at 26&#xB0;58.933&#x2032; N, inland waters are bounded westward along that latitude to Harbor View Road, then by Harbor View Road to US-41, then by US-41 to SR-776, then by SR-776 to the Myakka River Bridge.
