
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.47 Special rules - insects.
####### (Rhamnus crocea)

(C) Does not preclude efforts to augment or reintroduce populations of the Hermes copper butterfly within its historical range with management of the host plant, spiny redberry.

(vi) Take the Hermes copper butterfly outside the area delineated in paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section if the take results from any of the following activities when conducted within habitats occupied by the Hermes copper butterfly:

(A) Survey and monitoring work in coordination with and reported to the Service as part of scientific inquiry involving quantitative data collection (such as population status determinations).

(B) Habitat management or restoration activities, including removal of nonnative, invasive plants, expected to provide a benefit to Hermes copper butterfly or other sensitive species of the chaparral and coastal sage scrub ecosystems, including removal of nonnative, invasive plants. These activities must be coordinated with and reported to the Service in writing and approved the first time an individual or agency undertakes them.

(C) Activities necessary to maintain the minimum clearance (defensible space) requirement from any occupied dwelling, occupied structure, or to the property line, whichever is nearer, to provide reasonable fire safety and to reduce wildfire risks consistent with the State of California fire codes or local fire codes or ordinances.

(D) Fire management actions on protected/preserve lands to maintain, protect, or enhance coastal sage scrub and chaparral vegetation. These activities must be coordinated with and reported to the Service in writing and approved the first time an individual or agency undertakes them.

(E) Maintenance of existing fuel breaks identified by local fire authorities to protect existing structures.

(F) Firefighting activities associated with actively burning fires to reduce risk to life or property.

(G) Collection, transportation, and captive-rearing of Hermes copper butterfly for the purpose of population augmentation or reintroduction, maintaining refugia, or as part of scientific inquiry involving quantitative data collection (such as survival rate, larval weights, and post-release monitoring) in coordination with and reported to the Service. This does not include activities such as personal "hobby" collecting and rearing intended for photographic purposes and re-release.

(H) Research projects involving collection of individual fruits, leaves, or stems of the Hermes copper butterfly host plant, spiny redberry, in coordination with and reported to the Service.

(vii) Take the Hermes copper butterfly within the portion of the range described in paragraphs (e)(2)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section:

(A) The southern edge is the Mexican border, and the western edge is the Pacific coast. The eastern and northern edges of the boundary follow the development that would isolate any extant populations found within the boundaries.

(B) Note: The map of areas exempted from take prohibitions follows:
