
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.214 Critical habitat for Gulf sturgeon.
###### Unit 14: Suwannee Sound in Dixie and Levy Counties, Florida.
####### LOGG-N-17-Titusville to Floridana Beach Concentrated Breeding Area, Northern Portion of the Florida Constricted Migratory Corridor, Nearshore Reproductive Habitat from 28.70&#xB0; N, 80.66&#xB0; W near Titusville to Cape Canaveral Air Force Station; and Nearshore Reproductive Habitat from Patrick Airforce Base and Central Brevard Beaches, Brevard County, Florida:,Sargassum

(17)This unit includes overlapping areas of nearshore reproductive habitat, constricted migratory habitat, breeding habitat, andhabitat. The concentrated breeding habitat area is from the MHW line on shore at 28.70&#xB0; N, 80.66&#xB0; W near Titusville to depths less than 60 m and extending south to Floridana Beach. This overlaps with waters in the northern portion of the Florida constricted migratory corridor, which begins at the tip of Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (28.46&#xB0; N. lat.) and ends at Floridana beach, including waters from the MHW line on shore to the 30 m depth contour. Additionally, the above two habitat areas overlap with two nearshore reproductive habitat areas. The first begins near Titusville at 28.70&#xB0; N, 80.66&#xB0; W to the south boundary of the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station/Canaveral Barge Canal Inlet from the MHW line seaward 1.6 km. The second begins at Patrick Air Force Base, Brevard County, through the central Brevard Beaches to Floridana Beach from the MHW line seaward 1.6 km.
