
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.225 Critical habitat for the Gulf of Maine, New York Bight, Chesapeake Bay, Carolina, and South Atlantic distinct population segments (DPSs) of Atlantic Sturgeon.
###### e.g.,

(3) Water of appropriate depth and absent physical barriers to passage (locks, dams, thermal plumes, turbidity, sound, reservoirs, gear, etc.) between the river mouth and spawning sites necessary to support:

(i) Unimpeded movement of adults to and from spawning sites;

(ii) Seasonal and physiologically dependent movement of juvenile Atlantic sturgeon to appropriate salinity zones within the river estuary; and

(iii) Staging, resting, or holding of subadults or spawning condition adults. Water depths in main river channels must also be deep enough (at least 1.2 meters) to ensure continuous flow in the main channel at all times when any sturgeon life stage would be in the river;

(4) Water quality conditions, especially in the bottom meter of the water column, with temperature and oxygen values that support:

(i) Spawning;

(ii) Annual and inter-annual adult, subadult, larval, and juvenile survival; and

(iii) Larval, juvenile, and subadult growth, development, and recruitment. Appropriate temperature and oxygen values will vary interdependently, and depending on salinity in a particular habitat. For example, 6.0 mg/L dissolved oxygen or greater likely supports juvenile rearing habitat, whereas dissolved oxygen less than 5.0 mg/L for longer than 30 days is less likely to support rearing when water temperature is greater than 25 &#xB0;C. In temperatures greater than 26 &#xB0;C, dissolved oxygen greater than 4.3 mg/L is needed to protect survival and growth. Temperatures of 13 to 26 &#xB0;C likely support spawning habitat.

(5) Pursuant to ESA section 4(a)(3)(B)(i), critical habitat for the Carolina DPS of Atlantic sturgeon does not include certain waters of the Cooper River, South Carolina, adjacent to Joint Base Charleston. These areas are described in 33 CFR 334.460(a)(8)(ii)-(iv), 33 CFR 334.460(a)(9), and 33 CFR 334.460(a)(10).

(6) Pursuant to ESA section 3(5)(A)(i), critical habitat for the Carolina and the South Atlantic DPSs of Atlantic sturgeon does not include existing (already constructed), as of September 18, 2017, manmade structures that do not provide the physical features such as aids-to-navigation (ATONs), artificial reefs, boat ramps, docks, or pilings within the legal boundaries of designated critical habitat.
