
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 226 - DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT
##### ยง 226.225 Critical habitat for the Gulf of Maine, New York Bight, Chesapeake Bay, Carolina, and South Atlantic distinct population segments (DPSs) of Atlantic Sturgeon.
###### Critical habitat boundaries of the South Atlantic DPS.
####### Alaska.

(1)The nearshore boundaries are generally defined by the 1-m isobath relative to MLLW. On the north side of the Aleutian Islands, the seaward boundary of the critical habitat is defined by a line extending from 55&#xB0; 41 N, 162&#xB0; 41&#x2032; W west to 55&#xB0; 41&#x2032; N, 169&#xB0; 30&#x2032; W, then southward through Samalga Pass to a boundary drawn along the 2,000-m isobath on the south side of the islands. This isobath forms the southern boundary of the critical habitat, eastward to 164&#xB0; 25&#x2032; W. From this point, the 1,000-m isobath forms the offshore boundary, which extends eastward to 158&#xB0; 39&#x2032; W. Critical habitat also includes the waters around Kodiak Island and the Barren Islands. The western boundary for this area runs southward along 154&#xB0; 54&#x2032; W to the 1,000-m depth contour, and then extends eastward to a boundary at 150&#xB0; 40&#x2032; W. The area also extends northward to the mouth of Cook Inlet where it is bounded by a line that extends from Cape Douglas across the inlet to Cape Adam. Critical habitat also includes the Prince William Sound area and associated waters defined by an eastern boundary at 148&#xB0; 31&#x2032; W, a western boundary at 145&#xB0; 27&#x2032; W, and a seaward boundary drawn along the 1,000-m isobath.
