
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.47 Special rules - insects.
####### 2

() Applying pesticides in or contiguous to habitat known to be occupied by the Puerto Rican harlequin butterfly.

(B) Normal residential and urban activities, such as mowing, weeding, edging, and fertilizing.

(C) Maintenance of recreational trails in Commonwealth Forests by mechanically clearing vegetation, only when approved by or under the auspices of the Puerto Rico Department of Natural and Environmental Resources, or conducted on lands established by private organizations or individuals solely for conservation or recreation.

(D) Habitat management or restoration activities expected to provide a benefit to Puerto Rican harlequin butterfly or other sensitive species, including removal of nonnative, invasive plants. These activities must be coordinated with and reported to the Service in writing and approved the first time an individual or agency undertakes them.

(E) Projects requiring removal of the host plant to access and remove illicit garbage dumps that are potential sources of intentionally set fires, provided such projects are conducted in coordination with and reported to the Service.

(F) Fruit fly trapping by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, provided trapping activities do not disturb the host plant.

(v) Possess and engage in other acts with unlawfully taken wildlife, as set forth at ยง 17.21(d)(2) for endangered wildlife.
