
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart F - Endangered Plants
###### ยง 17.62 Permits for scientific purposes or for the enhancement of propagation or survival.
####### Permit conditions.

(c)In addition to the general conditions set forth in part 13 of this subchapter, every permit issued under this section shall be subject to the following special conditions:

(1) If requested, the permittee shall submit to the Director a written report of the activities authorized by the permit. Such report must be postmarked by the date specified in the permit or otherwise requested by the Director.

(2) A copy of the permit or an identification label, which includes the scientific name, the permit number, and a statement that the plant is of "wild origin" or "cultivated origin" must accompany the plant or its container during the course of any activity subject to these regulations, unless the specimens meet the special conditions referred to in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) In the case of plants that are herbarium specimens, or other preserved, dried or embedded museum specimens to be imported or exported as a noncommercial loan, exchange or donation between scientists or scientific institutions, the names and addresses of the consignor and consignee must be on each package or container. A description such as "herbarium specimens" and the code letters assigned by the Service to the scientists or scientific institution must be entered on the Customs declaration form affixed to each package or container. If the specimens are of taxa also regulated by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, specific information must be entered on the Customs declaration label affixed to the outside of each shipping container or package. See part 23 of this subchapter for requirements for trade in CITES specimens between registered scientific institutions.
