
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart F - Endangered Plants
###### ยง 17.63 Economic hardship permits.
####### Application requirements.

(a)An application for a permit under this section must be submitted to the Director by the person allegedly suffering undue economic hardship because his desired activity is prohibited. The application must be submitted on an official application form (Form 3-200) provided by the Service, or must contain the general information and certification required by ยง 13.12(a) of this subchapter. It must include, as an attachment, all of the information required in ยง 17.62 plus the following additional information.

(1) The possible legal or economic alternatives to the activity sought to be authorized by the permit.

(2) A full statement, accompanied by copies of all relevant correspondence, showing the applicant's involvement with the plant sought to be covered by the permit (as well as his involvement with similar plants). The applicant should include information on that portion of his income derived from activities involving such plants in relation to the balance of his income during the calendar year immediately preceding either thenotice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as Endangered, whichever is earlier.

(3) Where applicable, proof of a contract or other binding legal obligation which:

(i) Deals specifically with the plant sought to be covered by the permit;

(ii) Became binding prior to the date of thenotice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as endangered, whichever is earlier; and

(iii) Will cause monetary loss of a given dollar amount if the permit sought under this section is not granted.
