
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter D - Whaling
#### PART 230 - WHALING PROVISIONS
##### ยง 230.8 Reporting by whaling captains.

(a) The relevant Native American whaling organization shall require each whaling captain licensed pursuant to ยง 230.5 to provide a written statement of his/her name and village of domicile and a description of the distinctive marking to be placed on each harpoon, lance, and explosive dart.

(b) Each whaling captain shall provide to the relevant Native American whaling organization an oral or written report of whaling activities including but not limited to the striking, attempted striking, or landing of a whale and, where possible, specimens from landed whales. The Assistant Administrator is authorized to provide technological assistance to facilitate prompt reporting and collection of specimens from landed whales, including but not limited to ovaries, ear plugs, and baleen plates. The report shall include at least the following information:

(1) The number, dates, and locations of each strike, attempted strike, or landing.

(2) The length (taken as the straight-line measurement from the tip of the upper jaw to the notch between the tail flukes) and the sex of the whales landed.

(3) The length and sex of a fetus, if present in a landed whale.

(4) An explanation of circumstances associated with the striking or attempted striking of any whale not landed.

(c) If the relevant Native American whaling organization fails to provide the National Marine Fisheries Service the required reports, the Assistant Administrator may require the reports to be submitted by the whaling captains directly to the National Marine Fisheries Service.
