
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter F - Aid to Fisheries
#### PART 253 - FISHERIES ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Fisheries Finance Program
###### ยง 253.31 Harvesting rights loans.
####### Loan requirements and limitations.

(b)These loan requirements and limitations apply to individuals or entities who seek to finance or refinance the acquisition of harvesting rights.

(1) The borrower must meet all regulatory and statutory requirements to hold the harvesting rights at the time any such loan or refinancing loan would close.

(2) NMFS will accept and consider the input of a Regional Fishery Management Council at any time regarding the availability of loans in a fishery under the Council's authority.

(i) The Council may submit an explanation to NMFS, in writing, as to why the availability of financing for harvesting rights in a fishery would harm the achievement of the goals and objectives of the Fishery Management Plan applicable to the fishery. If NMFS accepts the Council's reasoning, harvesting rights loans will not be provided, or will cease to be provided, in that fishery.

(ii) If NMFS determines that harvesting rights loans will not be provided in a fishery, NMFS will publish a notice in thenotifying the public that new loans will not be made in that fishery.

(iii) In such a scenario, pending applications will be returned and loan fees returned as exceptional circumstances justify the action.

(3) The harvesting rights to be financed must be issued in a manner in which they can be individually identified such that a valid and specific security interest can be recorded. This determination shall be solely made by the Program.
