
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 12 - SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Restoration of Proceeds and Recovery of Storage Costs
###### ยง 12.42 Recovery of certain storage costs.
####### et seq.,,et seq.,

If any wildlife, plant, or evidentiary item is seized and forfeited under the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531any person whose act or omission was the basis for the seizure may be charged a reasonable fee for expenses to the United States connected with the transfer, board, handling, or storage of such property. If any fish, wildlife or plant is seized in connection with a violation of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, 16 U.S.C. 3371,any person convicted thereof, or assessed a civil penalty therefor, may be assessed a reasonable fee for expenses of the United States connected with the storage, care and maintenance of such property. Within a reasonable time after forfeiture, the Service shall send to such person by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, a bill for such fee. The bill shall contain an itemized statement of the applicable costs, together with instructions on the time and manner of payment. Payment shall be made in accordance with the bill. The recipient of any assessment of costs under this section who has an objection to the reasonableness of the costs described in the bill may, within 30 days of the date on which he received the bill, file written objections with the Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service for the Region in which the seizure occurred. Upon receipt of the written objections, the appropriate Regional Director will promptly review them and within 30 days mail his final decision to the party who filed objections. In all cases, the Regional Director's decision shall constitute final administrative action on the matter.
