
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter F - Aid to Fisheries
#### PART 259 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND TAX REGULATIONS
##### ยง 259.4 Constructive deposits and withdrawals; ratification of withdrawals (as qualified) made without first having obtained Secretary's consent; first tax year for which an Agreement is effective.
###### Ratification of withdrawals, as qualified, made without first having obtained Secretary's prior consent.

(d)Any withdrawals made after the effective date of an Agreement without the Secretary's consent are automatically non-qualified withdrawals, unless the Secretary subsequently consents to them by ratification.

(1) The Secretary may ratify, as qualified, any withdrawal made without the Secretary's prior consent, provided the withdrawal would have resulted in the Secretary's consent had it been requested before withdrawal.

(2) The Secretary may issue his or her retroactive consent, if appropriate, as work priorities permit. However, if the Secretary is unable to issue retroactive consent for withdrawals made without his or her consent, then those withdrawals, and any associated penalties, will be deemed due to the party's failure to apply in a timely manner.

(3) It is recommended that a party submit his or her request for withdrawal at least 45 days in advance of the expected date of withdrawal. Withdrawals made without the Secretary's consent, in reliance on obtaining the Secretary's consent, are made purely at a party's own risk. Should any withdrawal made without the Secretary's consent prove, for any reason, to be one which the Secretary will not or cannot consent to ratify, then the result will be an unqualified withdrawal and/or an involuntary termination of the Agreement.

(4) Should a party withdraw CCF funds for a project not previously deemed an eligible Schedule B objective without having first obtained the Secretary's consent, the Secretary may entertain an application to amend the Agreement's Schedule B objectives as the prerequisite to consenting by ratification to the withdrawal.

(5) Redeposit of any withdrawals made without the Secretary's consent, and for which such consent is not subsequently given (either by ratification or otherwise), shall not be permitted. If the non-qualified withdrawal adversely affects the Agreement's general status the Secretary may terminate the Agreement.
