
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## Decisions,

(2) Once a person has received a notice of a temporary suspension, a debarment hearing will be set for 30 days after the effective date of the suspension. Within 60 days after the completion of the debarment hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall determine, based upon evidence of record, whether the temporary suspension shall be continued or terminated. A temporary suspension shall be terminated by the Hearing Examiner if he determines that the acts or activities, which were the bases for the suspension, did not occur or will not cause serious and irreparable injury to the inspection program and services provided under the regulations of this subchapter. This determination of the Hearing Examiner on the continuation or termination of the temporary suspension shall be final and there shall be no appeal of this determination. The initial decision by the Hearing Examiner on the debarment shall be made in accordance with paragraph (b)(1),of this section.

(3) After a debarment hearing has been instituted against any person by a suspension, such suspension will remain in effect until a final decision is rendered on the debarment in accordance with the regulations of this section or the temporary suspension is terminated by the Hearing Examiner.

(4) When a debarment hearing has been instituted against any person not under suspension, the Director may, in accordance with the regulations of this paragraph (b) temporarily suspend such person, and the suspension will remain in effect until a final decision on the debarment is rendered in accordance with the regulations of this section or the temporary suspension is terminated by the Hearing Examiner.
