
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## Debarment.

(a)Any person may be debarred from using or benefiting from the inspection service provided under the regulations of this subchapter or under the terms of any inspection contract, and such debarment may apply to one or more plants under his control, if such person engages in one or more of the following acts or activities:

(1) Misrepresenting, misstating, or withholding any material or relevant facts or information in conjunction with any application or request for an inspection contract, inspection service, inspection appeal, lot inspection, or other service provided for under the regulations of this subchapter.

(2) Using on a processed product any label which displays any official identification, official device, or official mark, when the label is not currently approved for use by the Director or his delegate.

(3) Using on a processed product any label which displays the words "Packed Under Federal Inspection, U.S. Department of Commerce", or which displays any official mark, official device, or official identification, or which displays a facsimile of the foregoing, when such product has not been inspected under the regulations of this subchapter.

(4) Making any statement or reference to the U.S. Grade of any processed product or any inspection service provided under the regulations of this subchapter on the label or in the advertising of any processed product, when such product has not been inspected under the regulations of this subchapter.

(5) Making, using, issuing or attempting to issue or use in conjunction with the sale, shipment, transfer or advertisement of a processed product any certificate of loading, certificate of sampling, inspection certificate, official device, official identification, official mark, official document, or score sheet which has not been issued, approved, or authorized for use with such product by an inspector.

(6) Using any of the terms "United States", "Officially graded", "Officially inspected", "Government inspected", "Federally inspected", "Officially sampled", or words of similar import or meanings, or using any official device, official identification, or official mark on the label, on the shipping container, or in the advertising of any processed product, when such product has not been inspected under the regulations of this subchapter.

(7) Using, attempting to use, altering or reproducing any certificate, certificate form, design, insignia, mark, shield, device, or figure which simulates in whole or in part any official mark, official device, official identification, certificate of loading, certificate of sampling, inspection certificate or other official certificate issued pursuant to the regulations of this subchapter.

(8) Assaulting, harassing, interfering, obstructing or attempting to interfere or obstruct any inspector or sampler in the performance of his duties under the regulations of this subchapter.

(9) Violating any one or more of the terms of any inspection contract or the provisions of the regulations of this subchapter.

(10) Engaging in acts or activities which destroy or interfere with the purposes of the inspection program or which have the effect of undermining the integrity of the inspection program.
