
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## Decisions.

(l)(1) The Hearing Examiner shall render the initial decision in all debarment proceedings before him. The same Hearing Examiner who presides at the hearing shall render the initial decision except when such Examiner becomes unavailable to the Department of Commerce. In such case, another Hearing Examiner will be designated by the Secretary or Director to render the initial decision. Briefs, or other documents, to be submitted after the hearing must be received not later than twenty (20) days after the hearing, unless otherwise extended by the Hearing Examiner upon motion by a party. The initial decision shall be made within sixty (60) days after the receipt of all briefs. If no appeals from the initial decision is served upon the Director within ten (10) days of the date of the initial decision, it will become the final decision on the 20th day following the date of the initial decision. If an appeal is received, the appeal will be transmitted to the Secretary who will render the final decision after considering the record and the appeal.

(2) All initial and final decisions shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or bases therefore, upon the material issues presented. A copy of each decision shall be served on the parties to the proceeding, and furnished to interested persons upon request.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Hearing Examiner, and the Secretary where there is an appeal, to determine whether the person has engaged in one or more of the acts or activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, and, if there is a finding that the person has engaged in such acts or activities, the length of time the person shall be debarred, and the plants to which the debarment shall apply.
