
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## Duties of Hearing Examiner.

(j)The Hearing Examiner shall have the authority and duty to:

(1) Take or cause depositions to be taken.

(2) Regulate the course of the hearings.

(3) Prescribe the order in which evidence shall be presented.

(4) Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters.

(5) Hear and initially rule upon all motions and petitions before him.

(6) Administer oaths and affirmations.

(7) Rule upon offers of proof and receive competent, relevant, material, reliable, and probative evidence.

(8) Control the admission of irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent, unreliable, repetitious, or cumulative evidence.

(9) Hear oral arguments if the Hearing Examiner determined such requirement is necessary.

(10) Fix the time for filing briefs, motions, and other documents to be filed in connection with hearings.

(11) Issue the initial decision and dispose of any other pertinent matters that normally and properly arise in the course of proceedings.

(12) Do all other things necessary for an orderly and impartial hearing.
