
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## Form, execution, and service of documents.

(h)(1) All papers to be filed under the regulations in this section shall be clear and legible; and shall be dated, signed in ink, contain the docket description and title of the proceeding, if any, and the address of the signatory. Five copies of all papers are required to be filed. Documents filed shall be executed by:

(i) The person or persons filing same,

(ii) by an authorized officer thereof if it be a corporation or,

(iii) by an attorney or other person having authority with respect thereto.

(2) All documents, when filed, shall show that service has been made upon all parties to the proceeding. Such service shall be made by delivering one copy to each party in person or by mailing by first-class mail, properly addressed with postage prepaid. When a party has appeared by attorney or other representative, service on such attorney or other representative will be deemed service upon the party. The date of service of document shall be the day when the matter served is deposited in the U.S. mail, shown by the postmark thereon, or is delivered in person, as the case may be.

(3) A person is deemed to have appeared in a hearing by the filing with the Director a written notice of his appearance or his authority in writing to appear on behalf of one of the persons to the hearing.

(4) The original of every document filed under this section and required to be served upon all parties to a proceeding shall be accompanied by a certificate of service signed by the party making service, stating that such service has been made upon each party to the proceeding. Certificates of service may be in substantially the following form:
