
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## ยง 260.101 Lavatory accommodations.

Modern lavatory accommodations, and properly located facilities for cleaning and sanitizing utensils and hands, shall be provided.

(a) Adequate lavatory and toilet accommodations, including, but not being limited to, running hot water (135 &#xB0;F. or more) and cold water, soap, and single service towels, shall be provided. Such accommodations shall be in or near toilet and locker rooms and also at such other places as may be essential to the cleanliness of all personnel handling products.

(b) Sufficient containers with covers shall be provided for used towels and other wastes.

(c) An adequate number of hand washing facilities serving areas where edible products are prepared shall be operated by other than hand-operated controls, or shall be of a continuous flow type which provides an adequate flow of water for washing hands.

(d) Durable signs shall be posted conspicuously in each toilet room and locker room directing employees to wash hands before returning to work.

(e) Toilet facilities shall be provided according to the following formula:
