
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter G - Processed Fishery Products, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products
#### PART 260 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Inspection and Certification of Establishments and Fishery Products for Human Consumption
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 260.93 Debarment and suspension.
######## ยง 260.104 Personnel.
######### Cleanliness.

(b)All persons, while working in direct contact with food preparation, food ingredients, or surfaces coming into contact therewith shall:

(1) Wear clean outer garments, maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness, and conform to hygenic practices while on duty, to the extent necessary to prevent contamination of food products.

(2) Wash and sanitize their hands thoroughly to prevent contamination by undesirable microorganisms before starting work, after each absence from the work station, and at any other time when the hands may have become soiled or contaminated.

(3) Remove all insecure jewelry and, when food is being manipulated by hand, remove from hands any jewelry that cannot be adequately sanitized.

(4) If gloves are used in food handling, maintain them in an intact, clean, and sanitary condition. Such gloves shall be of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.

(5) Wear hair nets, caps, masks, or other effective hair restraints. Other persons that may incidentally enter the processing areas shall comply with this requirement.

(6) Not store clothing or other personal belongings, eat food, drink beverages, chew gum, or use tobacco in any form in areas where food or food ingredients are exposed or in areas used for washing equipment or utensils.

(7) Take any other necessary precautions to prevent contamination of foods with microorganisms or foreign substances including, but not limited to perspiration, hair, cosmetics, tobacco, chemicals, and medicants.
