
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter K - Continental Shelf
#### PART 296 - FISHERMEN'S CONTINGENCY FUND
##### ยง 296.5 Instructions for filing claims.
###### Contents of claim.

(e)Each claim must be signed by the claimant and must accurately and completely provide the following information:

(1) The name, mailing address, telephone number, citizenship, and occupational status (for example, vessel owner, operator, or crew member) of each claimant;

(2) The name and Coast Guard documentation number or State registration number of the commercial fishing vessel involved in the damage or loss;

(3) The home port, type, and size of the vessel involved in the casualty;

(4) A full statement of the circumstances of the damage or loss including:

(i) The date when the casualty was first discovered by the claimant,

(ii) The water depth (if known) and visibility at the time and location where the casualty occurred,

(iii) The direction, speed, and activities of the claimant's vessel immediately before, during, and after the casualty (including a full description of both the deployment of any fishing gear which is the subject of the claim and all attempts at retrieval of the gear),

(iv) The names and addresses of all witnesses to the casualty,

(v) The location where the casualty occurred in Loran C coordinates or the next most accurate method of position fixing available to the claimant,

(vi) A description of the item or obstruction (if sighted or recovered) which caused the casualty, and whether or not any surface markers were attached to or near the obstruction. Submit any available photographs of the item or obstruction. State reasons for believing the obstruction is associated with OCS oil and gas activities.

(5) The amount claimed for property damage or loss and a full statement of the type and extent of damage or loss including:

(i) An inventory of all components of fishing gear damaged or lost,

(ii) The date, place, and cost of acquisition of all fishing gear damaged or lost and proof of its purchase (sales receipts, affidavits, or other evidence),

(iii) One estimate from a commercial fishing gear repair or supply company of the present replacement or repair (whichever applies) cost of the damaged or lost fishing gear. If the gear will be repaired by the claimant himself, a detailed estimate by the claimant identifying the repair cost.

(6) The amount claimed for economic loss and the basis for that amount with supporting documentation, as follows:

(i) Trip tickets for the three vessel trips immediately before the trip during which the casualty was discovered and for the vessel trip immediately following the trip during which the casualty occurred.

(ii) A statement of the amount of time involved on each of the vessel trips above (or if the casualty involves fixed gear, a statement of the number of gear units deployed on each of these trips).

(iii) A statement of the amount of time lost from fishing because of the damage or loss and a full explanation of why this time period is reasonable.

(iv) Documentation of the date replacement gear was ordered and received or the date gear repair began and ended. This documentation may consist of purchase orders, bills of lading, or statements from sellers or repairers.

(7) The amount claimed for other consequential loss or costs (including fees for claim preparation, etc.) with suitable documentation of the amounts claimed (such as invoices, receipts, etc.).
