
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Eastern Pacific Tuna Fisheries
##### § 300.24 Prohibitions.
###### Carcharhinus falciformis

(gg) Use a commercial purse seine or longline fishing vessel of the United States to retain on board, transship, store, or land any part or whole carcass of a silky shark () in contravention of § 300.27(e).

(hh) Fail to follow observer safety requirements as specified under § 300.29.

(ii) Fail to handle or release a shark as required in § 300.27(k).

(jj) Use a shark line in contravention of § 300.27(l).

(kk) When deploying a FAD, activate the satellite buoy attached to a FAD in a location other than on a purse seine vessel at sea as required in § 300.28(b).

(ll) Fail to activate a satellite buoy before deploying a FAD at sea as required in § 300.28(b).

(mm) Deploy a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area that is not an Active FAD.

(nn) Have more Active FADs than specified in § 300.28(c) in the IATTC Convention Area at any one time.

(oo) Deploy a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area during a period of 15 days prior to the start of the selected closure period in contravention of § 300.28(d)(1).

(pp) Fail to timely remove from the water a number of FADs in the IATTC Convention Area equal to the number of FADs set upon by the vessel during the 15 days prior to the start of the selected closure period as required in § 300.28(d)(2).

(qq) Deploy, or have onboard a vessel, a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area that fails to comply with the FAD design requirements in § 300.28(e).
