
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart C - Eastern Pacific Tuna Fisheries
##### ยง 300.23 IATTC Regional Vessel Register.
###### Removal from the Vessel Register.

(f)A vessel may be removed from the Vessel Register by the Regional Administrator under any of the following circumstances:

(1) The vessel has sunk and the vessel owner or managing owner has not submitted written notification as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(2) By written request of the vessel's owner or managing owner.

(3) Following a final agency action on a permit sanction for a violation.

(4) For failure to pay a penalty or for default on a penalty payment agreement resulting from a final agency action for a violation.

(5) The U.S. Maritime Administration or the U.S. Coast Guard notifies NMFS that:

(i) The owner has submitted an application for transfer of the vessel to foreign registry and flag; or

(ii) The documentation for the vessel has been or will be deleted for any reason.

(6) The vessel does not have a valid state registration or U.S. Coast Guard certificate of documentation.

(7) For tuna purse seine vessels, by written notification from the owner or managing owner of the intent to transfer the vessel to foreign registry and flag, as described in paragraph (i) of this section.

(8) For tuna purse seine vessels, the request for active status on the Vessel Register has been determined to be a frivolous request.

(9) For tuna purse seine vessels, the vessel has been listed as inactive or sunk on the Vessel Register for more than two consecutive calendar years after January 21, 2020.
