
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart D - South Pacific Tuna Fisheries
##### § 300.38 Prohibitions.

(a) Except as provided for in § 300.39, in addition to the prohibitions in § 300.4, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to do any of the following:

(1) To violate the Act or any provision of any regulation or order issued pursuant to Act.

(2) To use a vessel for fishing in violation of an applicable national law.

(3) To violate the terms and conditions of any fishing arrangement to which that person is a party.

(4) To use a vessel for fishing in any Closed Area.

(5) To refuse to permit any authorized officer or authorized party officer to board a fishing vessel for purpose of conducting a search or inspection in connection with the enforcement of the Act or the Treaty.

(6) To refuse to comply with the instructions of an authorized officer or authorized party officer relating to fishing activities under the Treaty.

(7) To refuse to permit an authorized inspector full access to any place where fish taken in the Licensing Area is unloaded.

(8) To refuse to allow an authorized inspector to remove samples of fish from a vessel that fished in the Licensing Area.

(9) To forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with:

(i) Any authorized officer, authorized party officer or authorized inspector in the conduct of a search or inspection in connection with the enforcement of these regulations, the Act or the Treaty; or

(ii) An observer in the conduct of observer duties under the Treaty.

(10) To transship fish on board a vessel that fished in the Licensing Area, except in accordance with the requirements of § 300.46.

(11) To fail to have installed, allow to be programmed, carry, or have operational a VMS unit while in the Treaty Area as specified in § 300.45(a).

(12) To fail to activate a VMS unit, to interrupt, interfere with, or impede the operation of a VMS unit, to tamper with, alter, damage, or disable a VMS unit, or to move or remove a VMS unit without prior notification as specified in § 300.45(e).

(13) In the event of a VMS unit failure or breakdown or interruption of automatic position reporting in the Treaty Area, to fail to submit manual position reports as specified in § 300.45(f).

(14) In the event of a VMS unit failure or breakdown or interruption of automatic position reporting in the Treaty Area and if directed by the Administrator or an authorized officer, to fail to stow fishing gear or take the vessel to a designated port as specified in § 300.45(f).

(15) To fail to repair or replace a VMS unit as specified in § 300.45(h).

(b) Except as provided for in § 300.39, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States when in the Licensing Area:

(1) To use a vessel to fish unless validly licensed as required by the Administrator.

(2) To use a vessel for directed fishing for southern bluefin tuna or for fishing for any kinds of fish other than tunas, except that fish may be caught as an incidental bycatch.

(3) To use a vessel for fishing by any method, except the purse-seine method.

(4) To use any vessel to engage in fishing after the revocation of its license, or during the period of suspension of an applicable license.

(5) To operate a vessel in such a way as to disrupt or in any other way adversely affect the activities of traditional and locally based fishermen and fishing vessels.

(6) To use a vessel to fish in a manner inconsistent with an order issued by the Secretary under § 300.42 (section 11 of the Act).

(7) Except for circumstances involving force majeure and other emergencies involving the health or safety of crew members or the safety of the vessel, to use aircraft in association with fishing activities of a vessel, unless it is identified on the license application for the vessel, or any amendment thereto.
