
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart E - Pacific Halibut Fisheries
##### ยง 300.63 Catch sharing plan and domestic management measures in Area 2A.
###### Flexible Inseason Management Provisions for Sport Halibut Fisheries in Area 2A.

(c)(1) The Regional Administrator, NMFS West Coast Region, after consultation with the Chairman of the Pacific Fishery Management Council, the Commission Executive Director, and the Fisheries Director(s) of the affected state(s), or their designees, is authorized to modify regulations during the season after making the following determinations:

(i) The action is necessary to allow allocation objectives to be met.

(ii) The action will not result in exceeding the catch limit for the area.

(iii) If any of the recreational fishery subareas north of Cape Falcon, Oregon are not projected to utilize their respective quotas, NMFS may take inseason action to transfer any projected unused quota to another Washington recreational subarea.

(iv) If any of the sport fishery subareas south of Leadbetter Point, Washington, are not projected to utilize their respective quotas by their season ending dates, NMFS may take inseason action to transfer any projected unused quota to another Oregon sport subarea.

(v) Notwithstanding regulations at (c)(1)(i) of this section, if the total estimated yelloweye rockfish bycatch mortality from recreational halibut trips in all Oregon subareas is projected to exceed 22 percent of the annual Oregon recreational yelloweye rockfish harvest guideline, NMFS may take inseason action to reduce yelloweye rockfish bycatch mortality in the halibut fishery while allowing allocation objectives to be met to the extent possible.

(2) Flexible inseason management provisions include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Modification of sport fishing periods;

(ii) Modification of sport fishing bag limits;

(iii) Modification of sport fishing size limits;

(iv) Modification of sport fishing days per calendar week;

(v) Modification of subarea quotas; and

(vi) Modification of the Stonewall Bank Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA) restrictions off Oregon using YRCA expansions as defined in groundfish regulations at 50 CFR 660.70(g) or (h).
