
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart E - Pacific Halibut Fisheries
##### ยง 300.63 Catch sharing plan and domestic management measures in Area 2A.
###### Pacific Halibut Permits for IPHC Regulatory Area 2A,General.

(f)-(1)(i) This section applies to persons and vessels that fish for Pacific halibut, or land and retain Pacific halibut, in IPHC regulatory area 2A. No person shall fish for Pacific halibut from a vessel, nor land or retain Pacific halibut on board a vessel, used either for commercial fishing or as a recreational charter vessel in IPHC regulatory area 2A, unless the NMFS West Coast Region has issued a permit valid for fishing in IPHC regulatory area 2A for that vessel.

(ii) A permit issued for a vessel operating in the Pacific halibut fishery in IPHC regulatory area 2A shall be valid for one of the following, per paragraph (d) of this section:

(A) The incidental catch of Pacific halibut during the salmon troll fishery specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;

(B) The incidental catch of Pacific halibut during the sablefish fishery specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;

(C) The non-tribal directed commercial fishery during the fishing periods specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section;

(D) Both the incidental catch of Pacific halibut during the sablefish fishery specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and the non-tribal directed commercial fishery during the fishing periods specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section; or

(E) The recreational charter fishery.

(iii) A permit issued under paragraph (f) of this section is valid only for the vessel for which it is registered. A change in ownership, documentation, or name of the registered vessel, or transfer of the ownership of the registered vessel will render the permit invalid.

(iv) A vessel owner must contact NMFS if the vessel for which the permit is issued is sold, ownership of the vessel is transferred, the vessel is renamed, or any other reason for which the documentation of the vessel is changed as the change would invalidate the current permit. A new permit application is required if there is a change in any documentation of the vessel. To submit a new permit application, follow the procedures outlined under paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If the documentation of the vessel is changed after the deadline to apply for a permit has passed as described at paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, the vessel owner may contact NMFS and provide information on the reason for the documentation change and all permit application information described at paragraph (f)(2) of this section. NMFS may issue a permit, or decline to issue a permit and the applicant may appeal per paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(v) A permit issued under paragraph (f) of this section must be carried on board that vessel at all times and the vessel operator shall allow its inspection by any authorized officer. The format of this permit may be electronic or paper.

(vi) No individual may alter, erase, mutilate, or forge any permit or document issued under this section. Any such permit or document that is intentionally altered, erased, mutilated, or forged is invalid.

(vii) Permits issued under paragraph (f) of this section are valid only during the calendar year (January 1-December 31) for which it was issued.

(viii) NMFS may suspend, revoke, or modify any permit issued under this section under policies and procedures in title 15 CFR part 904, or other applicable regulations in this chapter.
