
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart F - Fraser River Sockeye and Pink Salmon Fisheries
##### ยง 300.94 Prohibitions and restrictions.

In addition to the prohibitions in ยง 300.4, the following prohibitions and restrictions apply.

(a) In addition to the prohibited acts set forth in the Act at 16 U.S.C. 3637(a), the following restrictions apply to sockeye and pink salmon fishing in the Fraser River Panel Area (U.S.):

(1) The Fraser River Panel Area (U.S.) is closed to sockeye and pink salmon fishing, unless opened by Fraser River Panel regulations or by inseason orders of the Secretary issued under ยง 300.97 that give effect to orders of the Fraser River Panel, unless such orders are determined not to be consistent with domestic legal obligations. Such regulations and inseason orders may be further implemented by regulations promulgated by the United States, the State of Washington, or any treaty Indian tribe, which are also consistent with domestic legal obligations.

(2) It is unlawful for any person or fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to fish for, or take and retain, any sockeye or pink salmon:

(i) Except during times or in areas that are opened by Fraser River Panel regulations or by inseason order, except that this provision will not prohibit the direct transport of legally caught sockeye or pink salmon to offloading areas.

(ii) By means of gear or methods not authorized by Fraser River Panel regulations, inseason orders, or other applicable Federal, state, or treaty Indian tribal law.

(iii) In violation of any applicable area, season, species, zone, gear, or mesh size restriction.

(b) It is unlawful for any person or fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to-

(1) Remove the head of any sockeye or pink salmon caught in the Fraser River Panel Area (U.S.), or possess a salmon with the head removed, if that salmon has been marked by removal of the adipose fin to indicate that a coded wire tag has been implanted in the head of the fish.

(2) Fail to permit an authorized officer to inspect a record or report required by the State of Washington or treaty Indian tribal authority.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, nothing in this subpart will be construed to prohibit the retention of sockeye or pink salmon caught by any person while lawfully engaged in a fishery for subsistence or ceremonial purposes pursuant to treaty Indian tribal regulations, for recreational purposes pursuant to recreational fishing regulations promulgated by the State of Washington, or as otherwise authorized by treaty Indian tribal or State of Washington law or regulation, provided that such treaty Indian tribal or State regulation is consistent with U.S.-approved Commission fishery regimes, Fraser River Panel regulations, or inseason orders of the Secretary applicable to fishing in the Fraser River Panel Area (U.S.).

(d) The following types of fishing gear are authorized, subject to the restrictions set forth in this subpart and according to the times and areas established by Fraser River Panel regulations or inseason orders of the Secretary:

(1) All citizens: Gill net, purse seine, reef net, and troll fishing gear. Specific restrictions on all citizens gear are contained in the Washington State Administrative Code of Chapter 220-47.

(2) Treaty Indians: Treaty Indian fishing gear.

(e) Geographic descriptions of Puget Sound Salmon Management and Catch Reporting Areas, which are referenced in the Commission's regimes, Fraser River Panel regulations, and in inseason orders of the Secretary, are found in the Washington State Administrative Code at Chapter 220-22.
