
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart G - Antarctic Marine Living Resources
##### ยง 300.115 Facilitation of enforcement and inspection.
###### Access and records.

(a)(1) The owners and operator of each harvesting vessel must provide authorized officers and CCAMLR inspectors access to all spaces where work is conducted or business papers and records are prepared or stored, including but not limited to personal quarters and areas within personal quarters. If inspection of a particular area would interfere with specific on-going scientific research, and if the operator of the harvesting vessel makes such assertion and produces an individual permit that covers that specific research, the authorized officer or CCAMLR inspector will not disturb the area, but will record the information pertaining to the denial of access.

(2) The owner and operator of each harvesting vessel must provide to authorized officers and CCAMLR inspectors all records and documents pertaining to the harvesting activities of the vessel, including but not limited to production records, fishing logs, navigation logs, transfer records, product receipts, cargo stowage plans or records, draft or displacement calculations, customs documents or records, and an accurate hold plan reflecting the current structure of the vessel's storage and factory spaces.

(3) Before leaving vessels that have been inspected, the CCAMLR inspector will give the master of the vessel a Certificate of Inspection and a written notification of any alleged violations of CCAMLR conservation measures in effect and will afford the master the opportunity to comment on it. The ship's master must sign the notification to acknowledge receipt and the opportunity to comment on it.

(4) Any person issued a first receiver permit under this subpart, or an IFTP under ยง 300.322, must as a condition of that permit, allow an authorized officer access to any facility from which they engage in the first receipt, import, export or re-export of AMLR for the purpose of inspecting the facility and any fish, equipment or records therein.
