
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart H - Vessels of the United States Fishing in Colombian Treaty Waters
##### ยง 300.123 Certificates and permits.
###### Application for certificate/permit.

(b)(1) An application for a permit must be submitted and signed by the vessel's owner. An application may be submitted at any time, but should be submitted to the Regional Administrator not less than 90 days in advance of its need. Applications for the ensuing calendar year should be submitted to the Regional Administrator by October 1.

(2) An applicant must provide the following:

(i) A copy of the vessel's valid USCG certificate of documentation or, if not documented, a copy of its valid state registration certificate.

(ii) Vessel name and official number.

(iii) Name, address, telephone number, and other identifying information of the vessel owner or, if the owner is a corporation or partnership, of the responsible corporate officer or general partner.

(iv) Principal port of landing of fish taken from treaty waters.

(v) Type of fishing to be conducted in treaty waters.

(vi) Any other information concerning the vessel, gear characteristics, principal fisheries engaged in, or fishing areas, as specified on the application form.

(vii) Any other information that may be necessary for the issuance or administration of the permit, as specified on the application form.
