
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart I - United States-Canada Fisheries Enforcement
##### ยง 300.142 Prohibitions.

The prohibitions in this section apply within waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada and during hot pursuit therefrom by an authorized officer of Canada. It is unlawful for any national or resident of the United States, or any person on board a vessel of the United States, or the owner or operator of any such vessel, to do any of the following:

(a) Engage in fishing in waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada without the express authorization of the Government of Canada.

(b) Take or retain fish in waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada without the express authorization of the Government of Canada.

(c) Be on board a fishing vessel in waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada, without stowing all fishing gear on board either:

(1) Below deck, or in an area where it is not normally used, such that the gear is not readily available for fishing; or

(2) If the gear cannot readily be moved, in a secured and covered manner, detached from all towing lines, so that it is rendered unusable for fishing; unless the vessel has been authorized by the Government of Canada to fish in the particular location within waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada in which it is operating.

(d) While on board a fishing vessel in waters subject to the fisheries jurisdiction of Canada, fail to respond to any inquiry from an authorized officer of Canada regarding the vessel's name, flag state, location, route or destination, and/or the circumstances under which the vessel entered such waters.

(e) Violate the Agreement, any applicable Canadian fisheries law, or the terms or conditions of any permit, license or any other authorization granted by Canada under any such law.

(f) Fail to comply immediately with any of the enforcement and boarding procedures specified in ยง 300.143.

(g) Destroy, stave, or dispose of in any manner, any fish, gear, cargo or other matter, upon any communication or signal from an authorized officer of Canada, or upon the approach of such an officer, enforcement vessel or aircraft, before the officer has had the opportunity to inspect same, or in contravention of directions from such an officer.

(h) Refuse to allow an authorized officer of Canada to board a vessel for the purpose of conducting any inspection, search, seizure, investigation or arrest in connection with the enforcement of any applicable Canadian fisheries law.

(i) Assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, threaten, obstruct, delay, prevent, or interfere, in any manner, with an authorized officer of Canada in the conduct of any boarding, inspection, search, seizure, investigation or arrest in connection with the enforcement of any applicable Canadian fisheries law.

(j) Make any false statement, oral or written, to an authorized officer of Canada in response to any inquiry by that officer in connection with enforcement of any applicable Canadian fisheries law.

(k) Falsify, cover, or otherwise obscure, the name, home port, official number (if any), or any other similar marking or identification of any fishing vessel subject to this subpart such that the vessel cannot be readily identified from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.

(l) Attempt to do any of the foregoing.
