
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart J - U.S. Nationals Fishing in Russian Fisheries
##### ยง 300.156 Prohibited acts.

In addition to the prohibited acts specified at ยง 300.4, it shall be unlawful for any U.S. national or vessel, or the owner or operator of any such vessel:

(a) To fish for Russian fishery resources without a valid permit issued by the competent authorities of the Russian Federation.

(b) To violate the provisions, conditions, and restrictions of an applicable permit.

(c) To violate the relevant laws and regulations of Russia.

(d) To harass, hunt, capture, or kill any marine mammal within the Russian EZ, or while fishing for Russian fishery resources, except as provided in ยง 300.155 (c).

(e) To fail to comply immediately with enforcement and boarding procedures specified in ยง 300.155 (d).

(f) To refuse to allow an authorized officer of the Russian Federation to board and inspect a vessel subject to this subpart for purposes of conducting any search, inspection, arrest, or seizure in connection with the enforcement of the relevant laws and regulations of the Russian Federation.

(g) To assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with, in any manner, any authorized officer of the Russian Federation in the conduct of any search, inspection, seizure, or arrest in connection with enforcement of the relevant laws and regulations of the Russian Federation.

(h) To fail to pay fines or penalties or comply with forfeitures imposed for a violation of the relevant laws and regulations of the Russian Federation.

(i) To refuse or fail to allow a Russian observer to board a vessel subject to this subpart while fishing in the Russian EZ, or for Russian fishery resources.

(j) To fail to provide to a Russian observer aboard a vessel fishing in the Russian EZ or for Russian fishery resources, the courtesies and accommodations provided to ship's officers.

(k) To assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, threaten, interfere with, harass, or fail to cooperate, in any manner, with a Russian observer placed aboard a vessel subject to this subpart.

(l) To fail to reimburse the Russian Federation for the costs incurred in the utilization of Russian observers placed aboard such vessel.

(m) To possess, have custody or control of, ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, transship, import, export, or traffic in any manner, any fish or parts thereof taken or retained, landed, purchased, sold, traded, acquired, or possessed, in any manner, in violation of the relevant laws and regulations of the Russian Federation, the Magnuson-Stevens Act, or this subpart.

(n) To enter the Russian EZ to fish unless a permit application has been submitted through NMFS to the competent authorities of the Russian Federation by the U.S. Department of State for such vessel as provided in this subpart.

(o) To fish for Russian fisheries or to possess fish taken in Russian fisheries on board a vessel subject to this subpart without a valid permit or other valid form of authorization issued by the competent authorities of the Russian Federation on board the vessel.

(p) To falsify, or fail to report to NMFS, any change in the information contained in a permit application subject to this subpart within 7 calendar days of such change.

(q) To attempt to do, cause to be done, or aid and abet in doing, any of the foregoing.

(r) To violate any other provision of this subpart.
