
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart M - International Trade Documentation and Tracking Programs for Highly Migratory Species
##### ยง 300.185 Documentation, reporting and recordkeeping requirements for consignment documents and re-export certificates.
###### Documentation requirements.

(2)(i) If a permit holder re-exports a consignment of bluefin tuna, or subdivides or consolidates a consignment of fish or fish products regulated under this subpart, other than shark fins, that was previously entered for consumption as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the permit holder must complete an original, approved, individually numbered, species-specific re-export certificate issued to that permit holder by NMFS for each re-export consignment. Such an individually numbered document is not transferable and may be used only once by the permit holder to which it was issued to report on a specific re-export consignment. A permit holder must provide on the re-export certificate the correct information and re-exporter certification. The permit holder must also attach the original consignment documentation that accompanied the import consignment or a copy of that documentation, and must note on the top of both the consignment documents and the re-export certificates the entry number assigned by CBP authorities at the time of filing the entry for the previously imported consignment. An electronic image of these documents and the required data set must be filed electronically with CBP via AES at the time of export.

(A) For Atlantic bluefin tuna, these requirements must be satisfied by electronic completion of a re-export certificate in the ICCAT eBCD system, unless NMFS provides otherwise through actual notice ornotice. In cases where the documentation requirements have been completed in the ICCAT eBCD system, a reduced data set consisting of the eBCD number and the exporter trade permit number would suffice as a re-export filing, without need to submit any forms in AES via DIS.

(B) For non-Atlantic bluefin tuna, these requirements must be satisfied by completion of a paper re-export certificate, and electronic filing of an image of such documentation and the required data set with CBP via AES.

(ii) If a consignment of fish or fish products regulated under this subpart, except bluefin tuna or shark fins, that was previously entered for consumption as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not subdivided into sub-consignments or consolidated with other consignments or parts thereof, for each such re-export consignment, a permit holder must complete the intermediate importer's certification on the original consignment document and note the entry number previously issued by CBP for the consignment at the top of the document. Such re-exports do not need a re-export certificate and the re-export does not require validation. An electronic image of the consignment document with the completed intermediate importer's certification and the required data set must be filed electronically with CBP via AES at the time of re-export.

(iii) Re-export certificates must be validated, as specified in ยง 300.187, by NMFS or another official authorized by NMFS. A list of such officials may be obtained by contacting NMFS. A permit holder requesting validation for re-exports should notify NMFS as soon as possible to avoid delays in inspection and validation of the re-export shipment. Electronic re-export certificates created for Atlantic bluefin tuna using the ICCAT eBCD system will be validated electronically.
