
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart M - International Trade Documentation and Tracking Programs for Highly Migratory Species
##### ยง 300.185 Documentation, reporting and recordkeeping requirements for consignment documents and re-export certificates.
###### 2,1

() For bluefin tuna harvested from other than the Atlantic Ocean, or for Atlantic Bluefin tuna entered pursuant to a notified exception under (a)(2)(ii)(A)(), an image of the original paper re-export certificate and the supporting consignment documents must be submitted to CBP via the ACE DIS.

(B) Bluefin tuna, imported into the Customs territory of the United States or entered for consumption into the separate customs territory of a U.S. insular possession, from a country requiring a BCD tag on all such bluefin tuna available for sale, must be accompanied by the appropriate BCD tag issued by that country, and said BCD tag must remain on any bluefin tuna until it reaches its final import destination. If the final import destination is the United States, which includes U.S. insular possessions, the BCD tag must remain on the bluefin tuna until it is cut into portions. If the bluefin tuna portions are subsequently packaged for domestic commercial use or re-export, the BCD tag number and the issuing country must be written legibly and indelibly on the outside of the package.

(iii) Fish or fish products regulated under this subpart other than bluefin tuna and shark fins:

(A) Imports that were previously re-exported and were subdivided or consolidated with another consignment before re-export, must also be accompanied by an original, completed, accurate, valid, approved and properly validated, species-specific re-export certificate. An image of such document, an image of the original import document, and the required data set must be filed electronically with CBP via ACE.

(B) Imports that have been previously re-exported from another nation must have the intermediate importer's certification of the original statistical document completed.

(iv) Consignment documents must be validated as specified in ยง 300.187 by an authorized government official of the flag country whose vessel caught the fish (regardless of where the fish are first landed). Re-export certificates must be validated by an authorized government official of the re-exporting country. For electronically generated Atlantic bluefin tuna catch documents, validation must be electronic using the ICCAT eBCD system.

(v) A permit holder may not accept an import without the completed consignment document or re-export certificate as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(vi) For fish or fish products, except shark fins, regulated under this subpart that are entered for consumption, the permit holder must provide correct and complete information, as requested by NMFS, on the original consignment document that accompanied the consignment.

(A) For Atlantic bluefin tuna, this information must be provided electronically in the ICCAT eBCD system, unless NMFS provides otherwise through actual notice ornotice.

(B) For non-Atlantic bluefin tuna, this information must be provided on the original paper consignment document that accompanied the consignment.
