
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart M - International Trade Documentation and Tracking Programs for Highly Migratory Species
##### § 300.189 Prohibitions.

In addition to the prohibitions specified in § 300.4, and §§ 600.725 and 635.71 of this title, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to violate any provision of this part, the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act, the Magnuson-Stevens Act, the Tuna Conventions Act of 1950, or any other rules promulgated under those Acts. It is unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to:

(a) Falsify information required on an application for a permit submitted under § 300.322.

(b) Import as an entry for consumption, purchase, receive for export, export, or re-export any fish or fish product regulated under this subpart without a valid trade permit issued under § 300.322.

(c) Fail to possess, and make available for inspection, a trade permit at the permit holder's place of business, or alter any such permit as specified in § 300.322.

(d) Falsify or fail to record, report, or maintain information required to be recorded, reported, or maintained, as specified in § 300.183 or § 300.185.

(e) Fail to allow an authorized agent of NMFS to inspect and copy reports and records, as specified in § 300.183 or § 300.185.

(f) Fail to comply with the documentation requirements as specified in § 300.185, § 300.186 or § 300.187, for fish or fish products regulated under this subpart that are imported, entered for consumption, exported, or re-exported.

(g) Fail to comply with the documentation requirements as specified in § 300.186, for the importation, entry for consumption, exportation, or re-exportation of an Atlantic swordfish, or part thereof, that is less than the minimum size.

(h) Validate consignment documents or re-export certificates without authorization as specified in § 300.187.

(i) Validate consignment documents or re-export certificates as provided for in § 300.187 with false information.

(j) Remove any NMFS-issued numbered tag affixed to any Pacific bluefin tuna or any tag affixed to a bluefin tuna imported from a country with a BCD tag program before removal is allowed under § 300.187; fail to write the tag number on the shipping package or container as specified in § 300.187; or reuse any NMFS-issued numbered tag affixed to any Pacific bluefin tuna, or any tag affixed to a bluefin tuna imported from a country with a BCD tag program, or any tag number previously written on a shipping package or container as prescribed by § 300.187.

(k) Import, or attempt to import, any fish or fish product regulated under this subpart in a manner inconsistent with any ports of entry designated by NMFS as authorized by § 300.188.

(l) Ship, transport, purchase, sell, offer for sale, import, enter for consumption, export, re-export, or have in custody, possession, or control any fish or fish product regulated under this subpart that was imported, entered for consumption, exported, or re-exported contrary to this subpart.

(m) Fail to electronically file via ACE a validated consignment document and the required data set for imports at time of entry into the Customs territory of the United States of fish or fish products regulated under this subpart except shark fins, regardless of whether the importer, exporter, or re-exporter holds a valid trade permit issued pursuant to § 300.322 or whether the fish products are imported as an entry for consumption.

(n) Import or accept an imported consignment of fish or fish products regulated under this subpart, except shark fins, without an original, complete, accurate, approved and properly validated, species-specific consignment document and re-export certificate (if applicable) with the required information and exporter's certification completed.
