
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart N - Identification and Certification of Nations
##### ยง 300.207 Alternative procedures for nations identified as having vessels engaged in IUU fishing activities that are not certified in this subpart.

(a) These certification procedures may be applied to fish or fish products from a vessel of a harvesting nation that has been identified under ยง 300.202 in the event that the Secretary cannot reach a certification determination for that nation by the time of the next biennial report. These procedures shall not apply to fish or fish products from identified nations that have received either a negative or a positive certification under this subpart.

(b) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary of Commerce may allow entry of fish or fish products on a shipment-by-shipment, shipper-by-shipper, or other basis if the Secretary determines that:

(1) The vessel has not engaged in IUU fishing under an international fishery management agreement to which the U.S. is a party; or

(2) The vessel is not identified by an international fishery management organization as participating in IUU fishing activities.

(c) In addition to any other import documentation requirements that otherwise apply, fish and fish products offered for entry under this section must be accompanied by certification of admissibility, for which a form is available from NMFS. The certification of admissibility must be properly completed and signed by a duly authorized official of the identified nation and must be validated by a responsible official(s) designated by NMFS. The certification must also be signed by the importer of record and submitted to NMFS in a format (electronic facsimile (fax), the Internet, etc.) specified by NMFS.

(d) Any action recommended under this section shall be consistent with international obligations, including the WTO Agreement.
