
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter III - International Fishing and Related Activities
### PART 300 - INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES REGULATIONS
#### Subpart N - Identification and Certification of Nations
##### § 300.206 Denial of port privileges and import restrictions on fish or fish products.
###### Scope of applicability.

(a)(1) Vessels from a nation identified in the biennial report under § 300.202(a), § 300.203(a), or § 300.204(a) and not positively certified by the Secretary of Commerce that enter any place in the United States or the navigable waters of the United States remain subject to inspection and may be prohibited from landing, processing, or transshipping fish and fish products, under applicable law. Services, including the refueling and re-supplying of such fishing vessels, may be prohibited, with the exception of services essential to the safety, health, and welfare of the crew. Fishing vessels will not be denied port access or services in cases of force majeure or distress.

(2) For nations identified in the previous biennial report under § 300.202(a) that are not positively certified in the current biennial report, the Secretary of Commerce shall so notify and make recommendations to the President, who is authorized to direct the Secretary of Treasury to impose import prohibitions with respect to fish and fish products from those nations. Such a recommendation would address the relevant fishing activities or practices for which such nations were identified in the biennial report. Such import prohibitions, if implemented, would apply to fish and fish products managed under an applicable international fishery agreement. If there is no applicable international fishery agreement, such prohibitions, if implemented, would only apply to fish and fish products caught by vessels engaged in illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing. For nations identified under § 300.203(a) or § 300.204(a) that are not positively certified, the Secretary of Commerce shall so notify and make recommendations to the President, who is authorized to direct the Secretary of Treasury to impose import prohibitions with respect to fish and fish products from those nations; such prohibitions would only apply to fish and fish products caught by the vessels engaged in the relevant activity for which the nation was identified.

(3) Any action recommended under paragraph (a)(2) shall be consistent with international obligations, including the WTO Agreement.
