
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 13 - GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Application for Permits
###### ยง 13.11 Application procedures.
####### Fees.

(d)(1) Unless otherwise exempted under this paragraph (d), you must pay the required permit processing fee at the time that you apply for issuance or amendment of a permit. You must pay in U.S. dollars. If you submit a check or money order, it must be made payable to the "U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service." The Service will not refund any application fee under any circumstances if we have processed the application. However, we may return the application fee if you withdraw the application before we have significantly processed it.

(2) If regulations in this subchapter require more than one type of permit for an activity and the permits are issued by the same office, the issuing office may issue one consolidated permit authorizing the activity in accordance with ยง 13.1. You may submit a single application in such cases, provided that the single application contains all the information required by the separate applications for each permitted activity. Where more than one permitted activity is consolidated into one permit, the issuing office will charge the highest single fee for the activity permitted.

(3) Circumstances under which we will not charge a permit application fee are as follows:

(i) We will not charge a permit application fee to any Federal, tribal, State, or local government agency or to any individual or institution acting on behalf of such agency. Except as otherwise authorized or waived, if you fail to submit evidence of such status with your application, we will require the submission of all processing fees prior to the acceptance of the application for processing.

(ii) As noted in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(iii) We may waive the fee on a case-by-case basis for extraordinary extenuating circumstances provided that the issuing permit office and a Regional or Assistant Director approves the waiver.
