
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 13 - GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Application for Permits
###### ยง 13.11 Application procedures.
####### User fees.

(4)The following table identifies specific fees for each permit application or amendment to a current permit. If no fee is identified under the Amendment Fee column, this particular permit either cannot be amended and a new application, and application fee, would need to be submitted or no fee will be charged for amending the permit (please contact the issuing office for further information).

(5) We will charge a fee for substantive amendments made to permits within the time period that the permit is still valid. The fee is generally half the original fee assessed at the time that the permit is processed; see paragraph (d)(4) of this section for the exact amount. Substantive amendments are those that pertain to the purpose and conditions of the permit and are not purely administrative. Administrative changes, such as updating name and address information, are required under 13.23(c), and we will not charge a fee for such amendments.

(6) Except as specifically noted in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a permit renewal is an issuance of a new permit, and applicants for permit renewal must pay the appropriate fee listed in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
