
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter IV - Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations
### Subchapter A
#### PART 403 - TRANSFER OF MARINE MAMMAL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY TO STATES
##### ยง 403.07 Revocation and return of State management authority.
###### Voluntary return of management authority to the Service.

(b)(1) If a state desires to return management of a species of marine mammals to the Service, it shall provide the Service notice of intent to return management. The Service shall accept the return of management, and such return shall become effective, upon publication of a notice in theto this effect no sooner than 30 days (except in an emergency as determined by the Service) nor longer than 60 days after the state has provided notice of its intent to return management or unless otherwise agreed upon.

(2) If implementation of any aspect of the state management program is enjoined by court order, the state shall advise the Service of such injunction and its effect on the state management program. If the state determines that the effect of the injunction is to preclude effective conservation and management of the species under the terms of the state management program, it shall so notify the Service and such notification shall be treated as a notice of intent to return management as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the state determines that the injunction does not preclude effective conservation and management of marine mammals under the terms of the state management program, it shall so notify the Service together with the basis for the state's determination and such notice shall be treated as a report submitted pursuant to the terms of ยง 403.06(c)(1) of this part. In either case, the state shall provide notice to the Service as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after issuance of the injunction. Management authority returned to the Service pursuant to this paragraph may be re-transferred to the state, notwithstanding the requirements of ยง 403.03, when, in the judgment of the Service, the cause for return of management authority to the Service has been alleviated in such a way as to allow effective conservation and management of the species consistent with the requirements of the Act and this part.

(c) When revocation of a management authority pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section becomes final, or when a state returns management pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Service shall resume such management authority and provide for the conservation of the species within the state in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
