
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter IV - Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations
### Subchapter A
#### PART 404 - PAPAH&#x100;NAUMOKU&#x100;KEA MARINE NATIONAL MONUMENT
##### ยง 404.4 Access to Monument.
###### nwhi.notifications@noaa.gov

(d) Immediately upon entering the reporting area, the vessels described in paragraph (c) of this section must provide the following information by e-mail sent toin the IMO standard reporting format and data syntax shown in appendix E:

(1) Vessel name, call sign or ship station identity, flag, and IMO identification number if applicable, and either Federal documentation or State registration number if applicable.

(2) Date, time (UTC) and month of entry.

(3) Position.

(4) True course.

(5) Speed in knots and tenths.

(6) Destination and estimated time of arrival.

(7) Intended route through the Monument and the reporting area.

(8) Vessel draft (in meters).

(9) Categories of hazardous cargoes on board.

(10) Any vessel defects or deficiencies that restrict maneuverability or impair normal navigation.

(11) Any pollution incident or goods lost overboard within the Monument, the reporting area, or the U.S. EEZ.

(12) Contact information for the vessel's agent or owner.

(13) Vessel size (length overall, gross tonnage) and type.

(14) Total number of persons on board.
