
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter IV - Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations
### Subchapter C - Endangered Species Exemption Process
#### PART 451 - APPLICATION PROCEDURE
##### ยง 451.02 Applications for exemptions.
###### Contents of the application when submitted.

(e)Exemption applicants must provide the following information at the time the application is submitted.

(1) Name, mailing address, and phone number, including the name and telephone number of an individual to be contacted regarding the application.

(2) If the applicant is a Federal agency:

(i) A comprehensive description of the proposed agency action and if a license or permit denial is involved, a comprehensive description of the license or permit applicant's proposed action.

(ii) In the case of a denial of a license or permit, a description of the permit or license sought, including a statement of who in the Federal agency denied the permit or license, the grounds for the denial, and a copy of the permit or license denial.

(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained, before the proposed action can proceed.

(iv) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act.

(v) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.

(vi) A copy of the biological opinion.

(vii) A description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the Federal agency, by the licensing or permitting agency, and by the permit or license applicant, to the extent known.

(viii) A statement describing why the proposed agency action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.

(ix) A description of resources committed by the Federal agency, or the permit or license applicant, if any, to the proposed action subsequent to the initiation of consultation.

(3) If the applicant is a permit or license applicant other than a Federal agency:

(i) A comprehensive description of the applicant's proposed action.

(ii) A description of the permit or license sought from the Federal agency, including a statement of who in that agency denied the permit or license and the grounds for the denial.

(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained, before it can proceed with the proposed action.

(iv) A copy of the permit or license denial.

(v) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.

(vi) A copy of the biological opinion.

(vii) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act, to the extent that such information is available to the applicant.

(viii) A description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the applicant, and to the extent that such information is available to the applicant, a description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the Federal agency.

(ix) A statement describing why the applicant's proposed action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.

(x) A description of resources committed to the proposed action by the permit or license applicant subsequent to the initiation of consultation.

(4) If the applicant is the Governor of a State in which the proposed agency action may occur:

(i) A comprehensive description of the proposed agency action and if a license or permit denial is involved, a comprehensive description of the license or permit applicant's proposed action.

(ii) A description of the permit or license, if any, sought from the Federal agency, including a statement of who in that agency denied the permit or license and the grounds for the denial, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.

(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained before the agency can proceed with the proposed action, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.

(iv) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.

(v) A copy of the biological opinion.

(vi) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.

(vii) A description of all alternatives considered by the Federal agency, by the licensing or permitting agency, and by the permit or license applicant, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.

(viii) A statement describing why the proposed agency action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.

(ix) A description of resources committed to the proposed action subsequent to the initiation of consultation, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.

(5) Each applicant, whether a Federal agency, a permit or license applicant, or a Governor, must also submit the following:

(i) A complete statement of the nature and the extent of the benefits of the proposed action.

(ii) A complete discussion of why the benefits of the proposed action clearly outweigh the benefits of each considered alternative course of action.

(iii) A complete discussion of why none of the considered alternatives are reasonable and prudent.

(iv) A complete statement explaining why the proposed action is in the public interest.

(v) A complete explanation of why the action is of regional or national significance.

(vi) A complete discussion of mitigation and enhancement measures proposed to be undertaken if an exemption is granted.

(6) When the exemption applicant is a license or permit applicant or a Governor, a copy of the application shall be provided by the exemption applicant at the time the application is filed, to the Federal agency which denied the license or permit.
