
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter V - Marine Mammal Commission
### PART 501 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 501.8 Appeal of initial denial of a request for amendment or correction.

(a) The initial denial of a request for amendment or correction may be appealed by submitting to the Director the following appeal papers:

(1) A copy of the original request for amendment or correction;

(2) A copy of the initial denial; and

(3) A precise statement of the reasons for the individual's belief that the denial is in error, referring specifically to the criteria contained in ยง 501.7(c)(1) through (8).

(b) The Director shall issue a final determination on appeal within thirty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date on which a completed Record on Appeal (including any additional information deemed necessary) is received. Review, and final determination by the Director, shall be based upon the criteria specified in ยง 501.7(c)(1) through (8).

(c) If the appeal is resolved favorably to the individual, the final determination shall specify the amendments or corrections to be made. Copies of the final determination shall be transmitted promptly to the individual and to the Privacy Officer. The Privacy Officer shall make the requested amendment or correction and advise the individual in writing of such action.

(d) If the appeal is denied, the final determination shall state, with particularity, the reasons for denial, including a citation to an appropriate section of the Act and of these Rules. The final determination shall be forwarded promptly to the individual, together with a notice which shall inform the individual of his or her right to submit to the Privacy Officer, for inclusion in the record, a concise statement of grounds for disagreement with the final determination. Receipt of any such statement shall be acknowledged by the Privacy Officer, and all subsequent and prior users of the record shall be provided copies of the statement. The notice shall also inform the individual of his or her right, under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1), to obtain judicial review of the final determination.
