
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter V - Marine Mammal Commission
### PART 560 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
#### ยง 560.4 Notice of meetings.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Commission shall make a public announcement at least 7 days prior to a meeting.

(b) The public announcement shall include:

(1) The time and place of the meeting;

(2) The subject matter of the meeting;

(3) Whether the meeting is to be open, closed, or portions thereof closed;

(4) Whether public participation will be allowed; and

(5) The name and telephone number of the person who will respond to requests for information about the meeting.

(c) The public announcement requirement shall be implemented by:

(1) Submitting the announcement for publication in the

(2) Distributing the announcement to affected governmental entities;

(3) Mailing the announcement to persons and organizations known to have an interest in the subject matter of the meeting; and

(4) Other means that the Executive Director deems appropriate to inform interested parties.

(d) A meeting may be held with less than 7 days notice if a majority of the members of the Commission determine by recorded vote that the business of the Commission so requires. The Commission shall make a public announcement to this effect at the earliest practicable time. The announcement shall include the information required by paragraph (b) of this section and shall be issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.

(e) The subject matter of an announced meeting, or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting or portions thereof to public observation, may be changed if a majority of the members of the Commission determine by recorded vote that Commission business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. The Commission shall make a public announcement of the changes made and the vote of each member on each change at the earliest practicable time. The announcement shall be issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.

(f) The time or place of an announced meeting may be changed only if a public announcement of the change is made at the earliest practicable time. The announcement shall be issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.
