
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 13 - GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Permit Administration
###### ยง 13.21 Issuance of permits.
####### Disqualifying factors.

(c)Any one of the following will disqualify a person from receiving permits issued under this part.

(1) A conviction, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, for a felony violation of the Lacey Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, or the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act disqualifies any such person from receiving or exercising the privileges of a permit, unless such disqualification has been expressly waived by the Director in response to a written petition.

(2) The revocation of a permit for reasons found in ยง 13.28 (a)(1) or (a)(2) disqualifies any such person from receiving or exercising the privileges of a similar permit for a period of five years from the date of the final agency decision on such revocation.

(3) The failure to pay any required fees or assessed costs and penalties, whether or not reduced to judgement disqualifies such person from receiving or exercising the privileges of a permit as long as such moneys are owed to the United States. This requirement shall not apply to any civil penalty presently subject to administrative or judicial appeal; provided that the pendency of a collection action brought by the United States or its assignees shall not constitute an appeal within the meaning of this subsection.

(4) The failure to submit timely, accurate, or valid reports as required may disqualify such person from receiving or exercising the privileges of a permit as long as the deficiency exists.
