
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart C - Council Membership
##### ยง 600.245 Council member compensation.

(a) All voting Council members whose eligibility for compensation has been established in accordance with NOAA guidelines will be paid through the cooperative agreement as a direct line item on a contractual basis without deductions being made for Social Security or Federal and state income taxes. A report of compensation will be furnished each year by the member's Council to the proper Regional Program Officer, as required by the Internal Revenue Service. Such compensation may be paid on a full day's basis, whether in excess of 8 hours a day or less than 8 hours a day. The time is compensable where the individual member is required to expend a significant private effort that substantially disrupts the daily routine to the extent that a work day is lost to the member. "Homework" time in preparation for formal Council meetings is not compensable.

(b) Non-government Council members receive compensation for:

(1) Days spent in actual attendance at a meeting of the Council or jointly with another Council.

(2) Travel on the day preceding or following a scheduled meeting that precluded the member from conducting his normal business on the day in question.

(3) Meetings of standing committees of the Council if approved in advance by the Chair.

(4) Individual member meeting with scientific and technical advisors, when approved in advance by the Chair and a substantial portion of any day is spent at the meeting.

(5) Conducting or attending hearings, when authorized in advance by the Chair.

(6) Other meetings involving Council business when approved in advance by the Chair.

(c) The Executive Director of each Council must submit to the appropriate Regional Office annually a report, approved by the Council Chair, of Council member compensation authorized. This report shall identify, for each member, amount paid, dates, and location and purpose of meetings attended.
