
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Interagency Cooperation
###### ยง 17.95 Critical habitat - fish and wildlife.
####### Note:

(5)Index map follows:

(6) Unit 1: TAR1-Upper Tar River, Granville County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 12.3 river miles (19.8 river kilometers) of the Upper Tar River from approximately SR1004 (Old NC 75) downstream to SR1622 (Cannady's Mill Road). Unit 1 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 1 follows:

(7) Unit 2: TAR2-Upper Fishing Creek, Warren County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 10.5 miles (17 kilometers) of Upper Fishing Creek from SR1118 (No Bottom Drive) downstream to NC58. Unit 2 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 2 follows:

(8) Unit 3: TAR3-Bens Creek, Warren County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 2 miles (3.2 km) of Bens Creek beginning approximately one mile upstream and ending approximately one mile downstream of SR1509 (Odell-Littleton Road). Unit 3 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 3 follows:

(9) Unit 4: TAR4a-Fishing Creek Subbasin, Edgecombe, Halifax, Nash, and Warren Counties, North Carolina; Unit 5: TAR4b-Sandy/Swift Creek, Edgecombe, Franklin, Nash, and Warren Counties, North Carolina; Unit 6: TAR4c-Middle Tar River Subbasin, Edgecombe, Franklin, and Nash Counties, North Carolina; and Unit 7: TAR4d-Lower Tar River Subbasin, Edgecombe and Pitt Counties, North Carolina.

(i) Units 4, 5, 6, and 7 include stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Unit 4 consists of 82.8 miles (133.3 km) of lower Little Fishing Creek approximately 1.6 miles (2.6 km) upstream of SR1214 (Silvertown Rd) downstream to the confluence with Fishing Creek, and including the mainstem of Fishing Creek from the Warren/Halifax County line to the confluence with the Tar River in Edgecombe County.

(iii) Unit 5 consists of 72.5 miles (116.8 kilometers) of Sandy Creek downstream of SR 1451 (Leonard Road) to the confluence with the Tar River, including Red Bud Creek downstream of the Franklin/Nash county line to the confluence with Swift Creek.

(iv) Unit 6 consists of 111 miles (179 kilometers) of the Middle Tar River from upstream of Highway 401 downstream to the confluence with Fishing Creek, including Stony Creek below SR1300 (Boddies' Millpond Rd), downstream to the confluence with the Tar River.

(v) Unit 7 consists of 59.9 miles (96.3 kilometers) in the Lower Tar River Subbasin from the confluence with Fishing Creek downstream to the confluence with Barber Creek near SR1533 (Port Terminal Road). This unit includes portions of Town Creek below NC111 to the confluence with the Tar River, Otter Creek below SR1251 to the confluence with the Tar River, and Tyson Creek below SR1258 to the confluence with the Tar River.

(vi) Map of Units 4, 5, 6, and 7 follows:

(10) Unit 8: NR1-Eno River, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 43.9 miles (70.6 kilometers) of the Eno River from NC86 downstream to the inundated portion of Falls Lake. Unit 8 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 8 follows:

(11) Unit 9: NR2-Flat River, Durham and Person Counties, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 15.2 miles (24.5 kilometers) of the Flat River from SR1739 (Harris Mill Road) downstream to the inundated portion of Falls Lake. Unit 9 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 9 follows:

(12) Unit 10: NR3-Middle Creek, Johnston and Wake Counties, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 30.8 miles (49.6 km) of Middle Creek from Southeast Regional Park downstream to the confluence with Swift Creek. Unit 10 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 10 follows:

(13) Unit 11: NR4-Swift Creek, Johnston County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 24 miles (38.6 kilometers) of Swift Creek from NC42 downstream to the confluence with the Neuse River. Unit 11 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 11 follows:

(14) Unit 12: NR5a-Little River, Franklin, Johnston, Wake, and Wayne Counties, North Carolina; Unit 13: NR5b-Mill Creek, Johnston and Wayne Counties, North Carolina; and Unit 14: NR5c-Middle Neuse River, Wayne County, North Carolina.

(i) Units 12, 13, and 14 include stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Unit 12 consists of 90.8 miles (146.1 kilometers) of the Little River from near NC96 in Wake County downstream to the confluence with the Neuse River, including Buffalo Creek from NC39 to the confluence with the Little River.

(iii) Unit 13 consists of 20.8 miles (33.5 kilometers) of Mill Creek from upstream of US701 downstream to the confluence with the Neuse River.

(iv) Unit 14 consists of 43.2 miles (69.5 kilometers) of the Middle Neuse River from the confluence with Mill Creek downstream to the Wayne/Lenoir County line.

(v) Map of Units 12, 13, and 14 follows:

(15) Unit 15: NR6-Contentnea Creek/Lower Neuse River Subbasin, Craven, Greene, Lenoir, Pitt, Wayne, and Wilson Counties, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 114.8 miles (184.8 kilometers) of Contentnea Creek from NC581 downstream to its confluence with the Neuse River, Nahunta Swamp from the Wayne/Greene County line to the confluence with Contentnea Creek, and the Neuse River from the confluence with Contentnea Creek to the confluence with Pinetree Creek. Unit 15 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 15 follows:

(16) Unit 16: NR7-Swift Creek (Lower Neuse), Craven County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 10.3 miles (16.5 rier kilometers) of Swift Creek from SR1931 (Beaver Camp Rd) downstream to SR1440 (Streets Ferry Rd). Unit 16 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 16 follows:

(17) Unit 17: TR1-Trent River, Jones County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 32.5 miles (52.4 kilometers) of Beaver Creek from SR1316 (McDaniel Fork Rd) to the confluence with the Trent River, and Trent River from the confluence with Poplar Branch downstream to SR1121 (Oak Grove Rd) crossing at the Marine Corps Cherry Point property. Unit 17 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 17 follows:

(18) Unit 18: TR2-Tuckahoe Swamp, Jones County, North Carolina.

(i) This unit consists of 2 miles (3.2 km) of Tuckahoe Swamp in Jones County, North Carolina. Unit 18 begins upstream of SR1142 (Weyerhaeuser Road) to the confluence with the Trent River. Unit 18 includes stream habitat up to bankfull height.

(ii) Map of Unit 18 follows:
