
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.501 Vessel permits.
###### Issuance.

(e)(1) Permits may be issued to an FFV by the Assistant Administrator after-

(i) The Assistant Administrator determines that the fishing described in the application will meet the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act and approves the permit application.

(ii) The applicant has paid the fees and provided any assurances required by the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of ยง 600.518.

(iii) The applicant has appointed an agent.

(iv) The applicant has identified a designated representative.

(v) The applicant has accepted the general "conditions and restrictions" of receiving permits, as required by section 204(b)(7) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, and any "additional restrictions" attached to the permit for the conservation and management of fishery resources or for the prevention of significant impairment of the national defense or security interests.

(2) The DOS will provide permits for activity codes 1 through 9 to the official representative of the applicant foreign nation. The Assistant Administrator will provide permits for activity code 10 directly to the applicant.

(3) An approved permit will contain-

(i) The name and IRCS of the FFV and its permit number.

(ii) The permitted fisheries and/or activity codes.

(iii) The date of issuance and expiration date, if other than December 31.

(iv) All conditions and restrictions, and any additional restrictions and technical modifications appended to the permit.

(4) Permits are not issued for boats that are launched from larger vessels. Any enforcement action that results from the activities of a launched boat will be taken against the permitted vessel.
