
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.501 Vessel permits.
###### Application.

(d)(1) Applications for FFV permits authorizing activity codes 1 through 9 must be submitted by an official representative of a foreign nation to the DOS. Applications for permits authorizing activity codes 1 through 9 are available from, and should be submitted to, DOS, OES/OMC, Washington, DC 20520. Applications for FFV permits authorizing activity code 10 may be submitted by any person to the Assistant Administrator. Applications for permits authorizing activity code 10 are available from NMFS, Attn: Office of International Affairs, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910. All applicants should allow 90 days for review and comment by the public, involved governmental agencies, and appropriate Councils and for processing before the anticipated date to begin fishing. The permit application fee must be paid at the time of application according to ยง 600.518.

(2) Applicants must provide complete and accurate information requested on the permit application form.

(3) Applicants for FFV's that will support U.S. vessels in joint ventures (Activity Code 4) must provide the additional information specified by the permit application form.

(4) Each applicant may request to substitute one FFV for another of the same flag by submitting a new application form and a short explanation of the reason for the substitution to the appropriate address listed at paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Each substitution is considered a new application, and a new application fee must be paid. NMFS will promptly process an application for a vessel replacing a permitted FFV that is disabled or decommissioned, once the appropriate Council(s) and governmental agencies have been notified of the substituted application.
