
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.502 Vessel reports.

(a) The operator of each FFV must report the FFV's activities to the USCG and NMFS as specified in this section.

(b) All reports required by this section must be in English and in the formats specified in the permit additions and restrictions. Reports must be delivered via private or commercial communications facilities, facsimile, or other electronic means acceptable to NMFS and the USCG, directly to the appropriate NMFS Region or Center and USCG commander. Weekly reports must also be delivered directly to the appropriate NMFS Region or Center (see tables 1 and 2 of this section). (The required reports may be delivered to the closest USCG communication station as indicated in table 3 of this section or other USCG communication station only if adequate private or commercial communications facilities have not been successfully contacted.) Radio reports must be made via radiotelegraphy, Telex, or facsimile where available. For the purposes of this section, a message is considered "transmitted" when its receipt is acknowledged by a communications facility and considered "delivered" upon its receipt by the offices of the appropriate USCG commander, NMFS Regional Office, or NMFS Center identified in table 2 of this section. Reports required by this section may be submitted by the vessel's designated representative; however, the operator of the FFV is responsible for the correct and timely filing of all required reports.
