
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.501 Vessel permits.
###### Permit amendments.

(l)(1) The Assistant Administrator may amend a permit by adding "additional restrictions" for the conservation and management of fishery resources covered by the permit, or for the national defense or security if the Assistant Administrator determines that such interests would be significantly impaired without such restrictions. Compliance with the added additional restrictions is a condition of the permit. Violations of added additional restrictions will be treated as violations of this subpart.

(2) The Assistant Administrator may make proposed additional restrictions effective immediately, if necessary, to prevent substantial harm to a fishery resource of the United States, to allow for the continuation of ongoing fishing operations, or to allow for fishing to begin at the normal time for opening of the fishery.

(3) The Assistant Administrator will send proposed additional restrictions to each Nation whose vessels are affected (via the Secretary of State), to the appropriate Councils, and to the Commandant of the Coast Guard. NMFS will, at the same time, publish a document of any significant proposed additional restrictions in theThe document will include a summary of the reasons underlying the proposal, and the reasons that any proposed additional restrictions are made effective immediately.

(4) The Nation whose vessels are involved, the owners of the affected vessels, their representatives, the agencies specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section, and the public may submit written comments on the proposed additional restrictions within 30 days after publication in the

(5) The Assistant Administrator will make a final decision regarding the proposed additional restrictions as soon as practicable after the end of the comment period. The Assistant Administrator will provide the final additional restrictions to the Nation whose vessels are affected (via the Secretary of State) according to the procedures of paragraph (e) of this section. The Assistant Administrator will include with the final additional restrictions to the Nation, a response to comments submitted.

(6) Additional restrictions may be modified by following the procedures of paragraphs (l)(2) through (l)(5) of this section.
