
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Health and safety standards.

(d)All foreign fishing vessels to which an observer is deployed must maintain, at all times that the vessel is in the EEZ, the following:

(1) At least one working radar.

(2) Functioning navigation lights as required by international law.

(3) A watch on the bridge by appropriately trained and experienced personnel while the vessel is underway.

(4) Lifeboats and/or inflatable life rafts with a total carrying capacity equal to or greater than the number of people aboard the vessel. Lifeboats and inflatable life rafts must be maintained in good working order and be readily available.

(5) Life jackets equal or greater in number to the total number of persons aboard the vessel. Life jackets must be stowed in readily accessible and plainly marked positions throughout the vessel, and maintained in a state of good repair.

(6) At least one ring life buoy for each 25 ft (7.6 m) of vessel length, equipped with automatic water lights. Ring life buoys must have an outside diameter of not more than 32 inches (81.3 cm) nor less than 30 inches (76.2 cm), and must be maintained in a state of good repair. Ring life buoys must be readily available, but not positioned so they pose a threat of entanglement in work areas. They must be secured in such a way that they can be easily cast loose in the event of an emergency.

(7) At least one VHF-FM radio with a functioning channel 16 (156.8 mHz), International Distress, Safety and Calling Frequency, and one functioning AM radio (SSB-Single Side Band) capable of operating at 2182 kHz (SSB). Radios will be maintained in a radio room, chartroom, or other suitable location.

(8) At least one Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB), approved by the USCG for offshore commercial use, stowed in a location so as to make it readily available in the event of an emergency.

(9) At least six hand-held, rocket-propelled, parachute, red-flare distress signals, and three orange-smoke distress signals stowed in the pilothouse or navigation bridge in portable watertight containers.

(10) All lights, shapes, whistles, foghorns, fog bells and gongs required by and maintained in accordance with the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea.

(11) Clean and sanitary conditions in all living spaces, food service and preparation areas and work spaces aboard the vessel.
