
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.504 Facilitation of enforcement.
###### Communications procedures.

(c)(1) Upon being approached by a USCG vessel or aircraft, or other vessel or aircraft with an authorized officer aboard, the operator of any FFV subject to this subpart must be alert for communications conveying enforcement instructions. The enforcement unit may communicate by channel 16 VHF-FM radiotelephone, 2182 kHz (SSB) radiotelephone, message block from an aircraft, flashing light or flag signals from the International Code of Signals, hand signal, placard, loudhailer, or other appropriate means. The following signals, extracted from the International Code of Signals, are among those that may be used.

(i) "AA, AA, AA, etc.", which is the call for an unknown station. The signaled vessel should respond by identifying itself or by illuminating the vessel identification required by ยง 600.505.

(ii) "RY-CY", meaning "You should proceed at slow speed, a boat is coming to you".

(iii) "SQ3", meaning "You should stop or heave to; I am going to board you".

(iv) "L", meaning "You should stop your vessel instantly."

(2) Failure of an FFV's operator to stop the vessel when directed to do so by an authorized officer using VHF-FM radiotelephone (channel 16), 2182 kHz (SSB) radiotelephone (where required), message block from an aircraft, flashing light signal, flaghoist, or loudhailer constitutes a violation of this subpart.

(3) The operator of or any person aboard an FFV who does not understand a signal from an enforcement unit and who is unable to obtain clarification by radiotelephone or other means must consider the signal to be a command to stop the FFV instantly.
