
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Effort plan.

(b)To ensure the availability of an observer as required by this section, the owners and operators of FFV's wanting to fish within the EEZ will submit to the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director and also to the Chief, Financial Services Division, NMFS, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 a schedule of fishing effort 30 days prior to the beginning of each quarter. A quarter is a time period of 3 consecutive months beginning January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year. The schedule will contain the name and IRCS of each FFV intending to fish within the EEZ during the upcoming quarter, and each FFV's expected date of arrival and expected date of departure.

(1) The appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director must be notified immediately of any substitution of vessels or any cancellation of plans to fish in the EEZ for FFV's listed in the effort plan required by this section.

(2) If an arrival date of an FFV will vary more than 5 days from the date listed in the quarterly schedule, the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director must be notified at least 10 days in advance of the rescheduled date of arrival. If the notice required by this paragraph (b)(2) is not given, the FFV may not engage in fishing until an observer is available and has been placed aboard the vessel or the requirement has been waived by the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director.
