
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Assistance to observers.

(c)To assist the observer in the accomplishment of his or her assigned duties, the owner and operator of an FFV to which an observer is assigned must-

(1) Provide, at no cost to the observer or the United States, accommodations for the observer aboard the FFV that are equivalent to those provided to the officers of that vessel.

(2) Cause the FFV to proceed to such places and at such times as may be designated by the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director for the purpose of embarking and debarking the observer.

(3) Allow the observer to use the FFV's communications equipment and personnel upon demand for the transmission and receipt of messages.

(4) Allow the observer access to and use of the FFV's navigation equipment and personnel upon demand to determine the vessel's position.

(5) Allow the observer free and unobstructed access to the FFV's bridge, trawl, or working decks, holding bins, processing areas, freezer spaces, weight scales, cargo holds and any other space that may be used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish or fish products at any time.

(6) Allow the observer to inspect and copy the FFV's daily log, communications log, transfer log, and any other log, document, notice, or record required by these regulations.

(7) Provide the observer copies of any records required by these regulations upon demand.

(8) Notify the observer at least 15 minutes before fish are brought on board or fish or fish products are transferred from the FFV to allow sampling the catch or observing the transfer, unless the observer specifically requests not to be notified.

(9) Provide all other reasonable assistance to enable the observer to carry out his or her duties.
