
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.504 Facilitation of enforcement.
###### Communications equipment.

(b)(1) Each FFV must be equipped with a VHF-FM radiotelephone station located so that it may be operated from the wheelhouse. Each operator must maintain a continuous listening watch on channel 16 (156.8 mHz).

(2) Each FFV must be equipped with a radiotelephone station capable of communicating via 2182 kHz (SSB) radiotelephony and at least one set of working frequencies identified in table 3 to ยง 600.502 appropriate to the fishery in which the FFV is operating. Each operator must monitor and be ready to communicate via 2182 kHz (SSB) radiotelephone each day from 0800 GMT to 0830 GMT and 2000 to 2030 GMT, and in preparation for boarding.

(3) FFV's that are not equipped with processing facilities and that deliver all catches to a foreign processing vessel are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) FFV's with no IRCS that do not catch fish and are used as auxiliary vessels to handle codends, nets, equipment, or passengers for a processing vessel are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(5) The appropriate Regional Administrator, with the agreement of the appropriate USCG commander, may, upon request by a foreign nation, accept alternatives to the radio requirements of this section to certain FFV's or types of FFV's operating in a fishery, provided they are adequate for the communications needs of the fishery.
