
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.504 Facilitation of enforcement.
###### Boarding.

(d)The operator of an FFV signaled for boarding must-

(1) Monitor 2182 kHz (SSB) radiotelephone and channel 16 (156.8 mHz) VHF-FM radiotelephone.

(2) Stop immediately and lay to or maneuver in such a way as to maintain the safety of the FFV and facilitate boarding by the authorized officer and the boarding party or an observer.

(3) Provide the authorized officer, boarding party, or observer a safe pilot ladder. The operator must ensure the pilot ladder is securely attached to the FFV and meets the construction requirements of Regulation 17, Chapter V of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974 (TIAS 9700 and 1978 Protocol, TIAS 10009), or a substantially equivalent national standard approved by letter from the Assistant Administrator, with agreement with the USCG. Safe pilot ladder standards are summarized below:

(i) The ladder must be of a single length of not more than 9 m (30 ft), capable of reaching the water from the point of access to the FFV, accounting for all conditions of loading and trim of the FFV and for an adverse list of 15&#xB0;. Whenever the distance from sea level to the point of access to the ship is more than 9 m (30 ft), access must be by means of an accommodation ladder or other safe and convenient means.

(ii) The steps of the pilot ladder must be-

(A) Of hardwood, or other material of equivalent properties, made in one piece free of knots, having an efficient non-slip surface; the four lowest steps may be made of rubber of sufficient strength and stiffness or of other suitable material of equivalent characteristics.

(B) Not less than 480 mm (19 inches) long, 115 mm (4.5 inches) wide, and 25 mm (1 inch) in depth, excluding any non-slip device.

(C) Equally spaced not less than 300 millimeters (12 inches) nor more than 380 mm (15 inches) apart and secured in such a manner that they will remain horizontal.

(iii) No pilot ladder may have more than two replacement steps that are secured in position by a method different from that used in the original construction of the ladder.

(iv) The side ropes of the ladder must consist of two uncovered manila ropes not less than 60 mm (2.25 inches) in circumference on each side (or synthetic ropes of equivalent size and equivalent or greater strength). Each rope must be continuous, with no joints below the top step.

(v) Battens made of hardwood, or other material of equivalent properties, in one piece and not less than 1.80 m (5 ft 10 inches) long must be provided at such intervals as will prevent the pilot ladder from twisting. The lowest batten must be on the fifth step from the bottom of the ladder and the interval between any batten and the next must not exceed nine steps.

(vi) Where passage onto or off the ship is by means of a bulwark ladder, two handhold stanchions must be fitted at the point of boarding or leaving the FFV not less than 0.70 m (2 ft 3 inches) nor more than 0.80 m (2 ft 7 inches) apart, not less than 40 mm (2.5 inches) in diameter, and must extend not less than 1.20 m (3 ft 11 inches) above the top of the bulwark.

(4) When necessary to facilitate the boarding or when requested by an authorized officer or observer, provide a manrope, safety line, and illumination for the ladder; and

(5) Take such other actions as necessary to ensure the safety of the authorized officer and the boarding party and to facilitate the boarding and inspection.
