
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Supplementary observer payment,Method of payment.

(h)-(1)The owners and operators of foreign fishing vessels must pay directly to the contractor the costs of supplementary observer coverage. Payment must be made to the contractor supplying supplementary observer coverage either by letter of credit or certified check drawn on a federally chartered bank in U.S. dollars, or other financial institution acceptable to the contractor. The letter of credit used to pay supplementary observer fees to contractors must be separate and distinct from the letter of credit required by ยง 600.518(b)(2). Billing schedules will be specified by the terms of the contract between NOAA and the contractors. Billings for supplementary observer coverage will be approved by the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director and then transmitted to the owners and operators of foreign fishing vessels by the appropriate designated representative. Each country will have only one designated representative to receive observer bills for all vessels of that country, except as provided for by the Assistant Administrator. All bills must be paid within 10 working days of the billing date. Failure to pay an observer bill will constitute grounds to revoke fishing permits. All fees collected under this section will be considered interim in nature and subject to reconciliation at the end of the fiscal year in accordance with paragraph (h)(4) of this section and ยง 600.518(d).
