
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Contractor costs.

(2)The costs charged for supplementary observer coverage to the owners and operators of foreign fishing vessels may not exceed the costs charged to NMFS for the same or similar services, except that contractors may charge to the owners and operators of foreign fishing vessels an additional fee to cover the administrative costs of the program not ordinarily part of contract costs charged to NMFS. The costs charged foreign fishermen for supplementary observers may include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Salary and benefits, including overtime, for supplementary observers.

(ii) The costs of post-certification training required by paragraph (j)(2) of this section.

(iii) The costs of travel, transportation, and per diem associated with deploying supplementary observers to foreign fishing vessels including the cost of travel, transportation, and per diem from the supplementary observer's post of duty to the point of embarkation to the foreign fishing vessel, and then from the point of disembarkation to the post of duty from where the trip began. For the purposes of these regulations, the appropriate Regional Administrator or Science and Research Director will designate posts of duty for supplementary observers.

(iv) The costs of travel, transportation, and per diem associated with the debriefing following deployment of a supplementary observer by NMFS officials.

(v) The administrative and overhead costs incurred by the contractor and, if appropriate, a reasonable profit.
