
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.507 Recordkeeping.
###### Daily joint venture log-contents.

(g)Daily joint venture logs must contain the following information, as modified by the fishery in which the vessel is engaged, and be completed according to the format and instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) "SECTION ONE-EFFORT" must contain, on a daily basis, that information required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(2) "SECTION ONE-EFFORT" must contain for each receipt of a codend-

(i) The consecutive codend number, beginning with the first codend received for the calendar year.

(ii) The name of the U.S. fishing vessel or the name and IRCS of the foreign fishing vessel the codend was received from.

(iii) The fishing area where the codend was received.

(iv) The time the codend was received.

(v) The position the codend was received.

(vi) The estimated weight of the codend to at least the nearest metric ton round weight.

(3) "SECTION TWO-CATCH" must contain, for each codend received-

(i) The consecutive codend number from "SECTION ONE".

(ii) The receipts of each authorized species or species group and its disposition, either processed for human consumption, used for fishmeal, discarded, or returned to the U.S. fishing vessel, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight.

(iii) The estimated receipts of each prohibited species or species group and its disposition, either discarded or returned to the U.S. fishing vessel if authorized in the fishery in which the U.S. vessel is engaged, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight.

(iv) The species code of each marine mammal received and its condition when released.

(4) "SECTION TWO-CATCH" must contain on a daily basis-

(i) The species codes of all authorized or prohibited species or species groups received.

(ii) The daily disposition, as described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, daily total, and cumulative total receipts of each authorized species or species groups.

(iii) The daily disposition, daily total and cumulative total receipts of all authorized species or species groups.

(iv) The daily and cumulative total receipts of prohibited species groups and their disposition as described in paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section.

(5) "SECTION THREE-PRODUCTION" must contain, on a daily basis, for each authorized species or species group received and product produced, that information required in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
