
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.506 Observers.
###### Supplementary observer certification suspension or revocation.

(k)(1) Certification of a supplementary observer may be suspended or revoked by the Assistant Administrator under the following conditions:

(i) A supplementary observer fails to perform the duties specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(ii) A supplementary observer fails to abide by the standards of conduct described by Department of Commerce Administrative Order 202-735.

(2) The suspension or revocation of the certification of a supplementary observer by the Assistant Administrator may be based on the following:

(i) Boarding inspection reports by authorized officers of the USCG or NMFS, or other credible information, that indicate a supplementary observer has failed to abide by the established standards of conduct; or

(ii) An analysis by NMFS of the data collected by a supplementary observer indicating improper or incorrect data collection or recording. The failure to properly collect or record data is sufficient to justify decertification of supplementary observers; no intent to defraud need be demonstrated.

(3) The Assistant Administrator will notify the supplementary observer, in writing, of the Assistant Administrator's intent to suspend or revoke certification, and the reasons therefor, and provide the supplementary observer a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the Assistant Administrator determines that there are disputed questions of material fact, then the Assistant Administrator may in this respect appoint an examiner to make an informal fact-finding inquiry and prepare a report and recommendations.
