
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.507 Recordkeeping.
###### Daily fishing log-contents.

(e)The daily fishing log must contain the following information, as modified by paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged, and be completed according to the format and instructions provided with the permit or other format authorized under paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) "SECTION ONE-EFFORT" must contain on a daily basis-

(i) A consecutive page number, beginning with the first day the vessel started fishing operations within the EEZ and continuing throughout the log.

(ii) The date (based on GMT).

(iii) The FFV's name.

(iv) The FFV's IRCS.

(v) The FFV's U.S. permit number.

(vi) The FFV's noon (1200 GMT) position in geographic coordinates.

(vii) The master or operator's signature or title.

(2) "SECTION ONE-EFFORT" must contain, for each trawl or set, as appropriate to the gear type employed-

(i) The consecutive trawl or set number, beginning with the first set of the calendar year.

(ii) The fishing area in which the trawl or set was completed.

(iii) The gear type.

(iv) The time the gear was set.

(v) The position of the set.

(vi) The course of the set.

(vii) The sea depth.

(viii) The depth of the set.

(ix) The duration of the set.

(x) The hauling time.

(xi) The position of the haul.

(xii) The number of pots or longline units (where applicable).

(xiii) The average number of hooks per longline unit (where applicable).

(xiv) The trawl speed (where applicable).

(xv) The mesh size of the trawl's codend (where applicable).

(xvi) The estimated total weight of the catch for the trawl of set, to at least the nearest metric ton round weight.

(3) "SECTION TWO-CATCH" must contain, for each trawl or set-

(i) The consecutive set or trawl number from "SECTION ONE".

(ii) The catch of each allocated species or species group to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight.

(iii) The prohibited species catch to at least the nearest 0.1 mt round weight or by number, as required by the regulations for the fishery in which the FFV is engaged.

(iv) The species code of each marine mammal caught and its condition when released.

(4) "SECTION TWO-CATCH" must contain, on a daily basis-

(i) The species codes for all allocated or prohibited species or species groups caught.

(ii) For each allocated species-the amount, to at least the nearest 0.1 mt, and the daily disposition, either processed for human consumption, used for fishmeal, or discarded; the daily catch by fishing area; the daily catch for all fishing areas; and the cumulative total catch.

(iii) For the total catch of allocated species-the amount to at least the nearest 0.1 mt and the daily disposition, daily total catch by fishing area, daily total catch for all fishing areas, and cumulative total catch.

(iv) The catch by fishing area, daily total, and cumulative total of each prohibited species.

(5) "SECTION THREE-PRODUCTION" must contain, on a daily basis, for each allocated species caught and product produced-

(i) The product by species code and product type.

(ii) The daily product recovery rate of each species and product.

(iii) The daily total product produced by species to at least the nearest 0.01 mt.

(iv) The cumulative total of each product to at least the nearest 0.01 mt.

(v) The cumulative amount of product transferred.

(vi) The balance of product remaining aboard the FFV.

(vii) The total daily amount, cumulative amount, transferred product and balance of frozen product aboard the FFV to the nearest 0.01 mt.

(viii) Transferred amount and balance of fishmeal and fish oil aboard to at least the nearest 0.01 mt.
