
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart F - Foreign Fishing
##### ยง 600.507 Recordkeeping.
###### Daily log maintenance.

(h)The logs required by paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section must be maintained separately for each fishery (see table 2 to ยง 600.502).

(1) The effort section (all of "SECTION ONE") of the daily logs must be updated within 2 hours of the hauling or receipt time. The catch or receipt by trawl or set ("SECTION TWO") must be entered within 12 hours of the hauling or receipt time. The daily and cumulative total catch or receipts ("SECTION TWO") and the production portion ("SECTION THREE") of the log must be updated within 12 hours of the end of the day on which the catch was taken. The date of catch is the day and time (GMT) the gear is hauled.

(2) Entries for total daily and cumulative catch or receipt weights (disposition "C" or "M") must be based on the most accurate method available to the vessel, either scale round weights or factory weights converted to round weights. Entries for daily and cumulative weights of discarded or returned fish (disposition "D" or "R") must be based on the most accurate method available to the vessel, either actual count, scale round weight, or estimated deck weights. Entries for product weights must be based on the number of production units (pans, boxes, blocks, trays, cans, or bags) and the average weight of the production unit, with reasonable allowances for water added. Allowances for water added cannot exceed 5 percent of the unit weight. Product weights cannot be based on the commercial or arbitrary wholesale weight of the product, but must be based on the total actual weight of the product as determined by representative samples.

(3) The owner or operator must make all entries in indelible ink, with corrections to be accomplished by lining out and rewriting, rather than erasure.

(i) Alternative log formats. As an alternative to the use of the specific formats provided, a Nation may submit a proposed log format for FFV's of that Nation for a general type of fishery operation in a fishery (i.e., joint venture operations) to the appropriate Regional Administrator and the USCG commander (see tables 1 and 2 to ยง 600.502). With the agreement of the USCG commander, the Regional Administrator may authorize the use of that log format for vessels of the requesting Nation.
