
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Interagency Cooperation
###### ยง 17.95 Critical habitat - fish and wildlife.
####### Critical habitat map units.,http://www.fws.gov/midwest/Endangered/,http://www.regulations.gov

(4)Data layers defining map units were created and digitized using ESRI's ArcMap (version 10.0) and comparing USGS NAIP/FSA high-resolution orthophotography from 2010 or later and previously mapped skipper habitat polygons submitted by contracted researchers or prairie habitat polygons made available from Minnesota Department of Natural Resources' County Biological Survey. Critical habitat units then were mapped in Geographic Coordinate System WGS84. The maps in this entry, as modified by any accompanying regulatory text, establish the boundaries of the critical habitat designation. The coordinates or plot points or both on which each map is based are available to the public at the Service's internet site (), atat Docket No. FWS-R3-ES-2013-0017, and at the field office responsible for this designation. You may obtain field office location information by contacting one of the Service regional offices, the addresses of which are listed at 50 CFR 2.2.

(5) Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota index map follows:

(6) Michigan and Wisconsin index map follows:

(7) PS Iowa Unit 1, Howard County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 1 follows:

(8) PS Iowa Unit 2, Cerro Gordo County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 2 follows:

(9) PS Iowa Units 3, 4, and 7, Dickinson County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Units 3, 4, and 7 follows:

(10) PS Iowa Unit 5, Osceola County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 5 follows:

(11) PS Iowa Unit 6, Dickinson County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 6 follows:

(12) PS Iowa Unit 8, Osceola County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 8 follows:

(13) PS Iowa Unit 9, Dickinson County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 9 follows:

(14) PS Iowa Unit 10, Kossuth County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 10 follows:

(15) PS Iowa Unit 11, Emmet County, Iowa. Map of PS Iowa Unit 11 follows:

(16) PS Michigan Unit 1, Oakland County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Unit 1 follows:

(17) PS Michigan Units 2 and 3, Oakland County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Units 2 and 3 follows:

(18) PS Michigan Unit 4, Oakland County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Unit 4 follows:

(19) PS Michigan Unit 5, Livingston County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Unit 5 follows:

(20) PS Michigan Unit 6, Washtenah County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Unit 6 follows:

(21) PS Michigan Unit 7, Lenawee County, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Unit 7 follows:

(22) PS Michigan Units 8 and 9, Jackson and Hillsdale Counties, Michigan. Map of PS Michigan Units 8 and 9 follows:

(23) PS Minnesota Unit 1, Pope County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 1 follows:

(24) PS Minnesota Units 2 and 3, Murray County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Units 2 and 3 follows:

(25) PS Minnesota Units 4 and 18, Clay County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Units 4 and 18 follows:

(26) PS Minnesota Unit 5, Clay County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 5 follows:

(27) PS Minnesota Unit 6, Norman County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 6 follows:

(28) PS Minnesota Unit 7, Lincoln and Pipestone Counties, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 7 follows:

(29) PS Minnesota Units 8 and 9, Pipestone County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Units 8 and 9 follows:

(30) PS Minnesota Unit 10, Swift and Chippewa Counties, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 10 follows:

(31) PS Minnesota Unit 11, Wilkin County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 11 follows:

(32) PS Minnesota Unit 12, Lyon County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 12 follows:

(33) PS Minnesota Unit 13, Lac Qui Parle County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 13 follows:

(34) PS Minnesota Unit 14, Douglas County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 14 follows:

(35) PS Minnesota Unit 15, Mahnomen County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 15 follows:

(36) PS Minnesota Unit 16, Cottonwood County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 16 follows:

(37) PS Minnesota Unit 17, Pope County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 17 follows:

(38) PS Minnesota Unit 19, Kittson County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 19 follows:

(39) PS Minnesota Unit 20, Polk County, Minnesota. Map of PS Minnesota Unit 20 follows:

(40) PS North Dakota Units 1 and 2, Richland County, North Dakota. Map of PS North Dakota Units 1 and 2 follows:

(41) PS South Dakota Unit 1, Marshall County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 1 follows:

(42) PS South Dakota Unit 2, Brookings County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 2 follows:

(43) PS South Dakota Units 3 and 5, Deuel County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Units 3 and 5 follows:

(44) PS South Dakota Unit 4, Grant County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 4 follows:

(45) PS South Dakota Unit 6, Roberts County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 6 follows:

(46) PS South Dakota Unit 7, Roberts County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 7 follows:

(47) PS South Dakota Unit 8, Roberts County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 8 follows:

(48) PS South Dakota Units 15 and 16, Day County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Units 15 and 16 follows:

(49) PS South Dakota Unit 17, Moody County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 17 follows:

(50) PS South Dakota Unit 18, Marshall County, South Dakota. Map of PS South Dakota Unit 18 follows:

(51) PS Wisconsin Unit 1, Waukesha County, Wisconsin. Map of PS Wisconsin Unit 1 follows:

(52) PS Wisconsin Unit 2, Green Lake County, Wisconsin. Map of PS Wisconsin Unit 2 follows:
