
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Interagency Cooperation
###### ยง 17.96 Critical habitat - plants.
####### Conifers, ferns and allies, and lichens.,Trichomanes punctatum,floridanum

(b)(1) Family Hymenophyllaceae:ssp.(Florida bristle fern).

(i) Critical habitat units are depicted for Miami-Dade and Sumter Counties, Florida, on the maps in this entry.

(ii) Within these areas, the physical or biological features essential to the conservation of Florida bristle fern consist of the following components:

(A) Upland hardwood forest hammock habitats of sufficient quality and size to sustain the necessary microclimate and life processes for Florida bristle fern.

(B) Exposed substrate derived from oolitic limestone, Ocala limestone, or exposed limestone boulders, which provide anchoring and nutritional requirements.

(C) Constantly humid microhabitat consisting of dense canopy cover, moisture, stable high temperature, and stable monthly average humidity of 90 percent or higher, with intact hydrology within hammocks and the surrounding and adjacent wetland communities.

(D) Dense canopy cover of surrounding native vegetation that consists of the upland hardwood forest hammock habitats and provides shade, shelter, and moisture.

(E) Suitable microhabitat conditions, hydrology, and connectivity that can support Florida bristle fern's growth, distribution, and population expansion (including rhizomal growth, spore dispersal, and sporophyte and gametophyte growth and survival).

(F) Plant community of predominantly native vegetation that is minimally disturbed or free from human-related disturbance, with either no competitive nonnative, invasive plant species, or such species in quantities low enough to have minimal effect on Florida bristle fern.

(iii) Critical habitat does not include manmade structures (such as buildings, aqueducts, runways, roads, and other paved areas) and the land on which they are located existing within the legal boundaries on January 23, 2023.
