
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Interagency Cooperation
###### ยง 17.96 Critical habitat - plants.
####### https://www.regulations.gov,https://www.fws.gov/office/florida-ecological-services/library,

(iv) Data layers defining map units were created using ESRI ArcGIS mapping software along with various spatial data layers. ArcGIS was used to calculate the size of habitat areas. The projection used in mapping and calculating distances and locations within the units was North American Albers Equal Area Conic, NAD 83 Geographic. The maps in this entry, as modified by any accompanying regulatory text, establish the boundaries of the critical habitat designation. The coordinates or plot points or both on which each map is based are available to the public atunder Docket No. FWS-R4-ES-2019-0068,and at the Florida Ecological Services Field Office, Vero Beach. You may obtain field office location information by contacting one of the Service regional offices, the addresses of which are listed at 50 CFR 2.2.

(v) Index map follows:

(vi) SF 1-Matheson Hammock, SF 2-Snapper Creek Hammock, and SF 3-Charles Deering Estate Hammock, Miami-Dade County, Florida.

(A) SF 1 consists of approximately 22 hectares (ha) (55 acres (ac)) in Matheson Hammock in and around Matheson Hammock Park. This unit is composed of 20.6 ha (51.1 ac) of County-owned land that is primarily managed cooperatively by Miami-Dade County's Environmentally Endangered Lands (EEL) program and Natural Areas Management division. The remaining 1.5 ha (3.7 ac) are privately owned and managed by the landowners through the County's EEL Covenant Program and/or are protected from development through the County's designation as Natural Forest Communities.

(B) SF 2 consists of approximately 6 ha (15 ac) in Snapper Creek Hammock adjacent to R. Hardy Matheson Preserve. This unit consists of 3.2 ha (8 ac) of State-owned land that is primarily managed cooperatively by Miami-Dade County's EEL program and Natural Areas Management division and 2.8 ha (7 ac) of University of Miami-owned land that is managed in cooperation with Fairchild Tropical Botanical Gardens.

(C) SF 3 consists of approximately 43 ha (106 ac) in Charles Deering Estate. This unit is comprised of State-owned land that is primarily managed by the Miami-Dade County EEL program and Natural Areas Management division.

(D) Map of SF 1, SF 2, and SF 3 follows:

(vii) SF 4-Castellow and Ross Hammocks, SF 5-Silver Palm Hammock, SF 6-Hattie Bauer Hammock, and SF 7-Fuchs and Meissner Hammocks, Miami-Dade County, Florida.

(A) SF 4 consists of approximately 56 ha (139 ac) in Castellow and Ross Hammocks in and around Castellow Hammock Preserve. This unit consists of 17.5 ha (43.3 ac) of State-owned and 25.6 ha (63.4 ac) of County-owned lands that are primarily managed cooperatively by the Miami-Dade County EEL program and Natural Areas Management division. The remaining 13 ha (32.3 ac) are privately owned and managed by the landowners through the EEL Covenant Program and/or are protected from development through Miami-Dade County's designation as Natural Forest Communities.

(B) SF 5 consists of approximately 4 ha (10 ac) in Silver Palm Hammock. This unit comprises State-owned land that is primarily managed cooperatively by the Miami-Dade County EEL program and Natural Areas Management division.

(C) SF 6 consists of approximately 6 ha (16 ac) in Hattie Bauer Hammock in and around Hattie Bauer Hammock Preserve. This unit consists of 4 ha (10 ac) of County-owned land that is primarily managed cooperatively by the Miami-Dade County EEL program and Natural Areas Management division. The remaining 2 ha (6 ac) are privately owned and managed by the landowners through the EEL Covenant Program and/or are protected from development through Miami-Dade County's designation as Natural Forest Communities.

(D) SF 7 consists of approximately 10 ha (25 ac) in Fuchs and Meissner Hammocks in and around Fuchs and Meissner Hammock Preserves. This unit consists of 2 ha (5 ac) of State-owned and 7.6 ha (19 ac) of County-owned lands that are primarily managed cooperatively by the Miami-Dade County EEL program and Natural Areas Management division. The remaining 0.4 ha (1 ac) are privately owned and managed by the landowners through the EEL Covenant Program and/or are protected from development through Miami-Dade County's designation as Natural Forest Communities.

(E) Map of SF 4, SF 5, SF 6, and SF 7 follows:

(viii) SF 8-Royal Palm Hammock, Miami-Dade County, Florida.

(A) SF 8 consists of approximately 61 ha (150 ac) in Royal Palm Hammock in Everglades National Park.

(B) Map of SF 8 follows:

(ix) CF 1 and CF 2, Sumter County, Florida.

(A) CF 1 consists of approximately 742 ha (1,834 ac) of State-owned land (726 ha (1,795 ac)) within the Jumper Creek Tract of the Withlacoochee State Forest and of privately owned land (16 ha (39 ac)) directly adjacent to Withlacoochee State Forest. The State-owned land is managed by the Florida Forest Service.

(B) CF 2 consists of approximately 747 ha (1,846 ac) of State-owned land within the Jumper Creek Tract of the Withlacoochee State Forest.

(C) Map of CF 1 and CF 2 follows:

(2) [Reserved]
