
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart H - General Provisions for Domestic Fisheries
##### § 600.725 General prohibitions.

It is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Possess, have custody or control of, ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, land, import, export or re-export, any fish or parts thereof taken or retained in violation of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA or any regulation or permit issued thereunder, or import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or foreign commerce any fish taken, possessed, transported, or sold in violation of any foreign law or regulation, or any treaty or in contravention of a binding conservation measure adopted by an international agreement or organization to which the United States is a party.

(b) Transfer or attempt to transfer, directly or indirectly, any U.S.-harvested fish to any foreign fishing vessel, while such vessel is in the EEZ, unless the foreign fishing vessel has been issued a permit under section 204 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which authorizes the receipt by such vessel of U.S.- harvested fish.

(c) Fail to comply immediately with enforcement and boarding procedures specified in § 600.730.

(d) Refuse to allow an authorized officer to board a fishing vessel or to enter areas of custody for purposes of conducting any search, inspection, or seizure in connection with the enforcement of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(e) Dispose of fish or parts thereof or other matter in any manner, after any communication or signal from an authorized officer, or after the approach by an authorized officer or an enforcement vessel or aircraft.

(f) Assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any authorized officer in the conduct of any search, inspection, or seizure in connection with enforcement of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(g) Interfere with, delay, or prevent by any means, the apprehension of another person, knowing that such person has committed any act prohibited by the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(h) Resist a lawful arrest for any act prohibited under the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(i) Make any false statement, oral or written, to an authorized officer concerning the taking, catching, harvesting, landing, purchase, sale, offer of sale, possession, transport, import, export, or transfer of any fish, or attempts to do any of the above.

(j) Interfere with, obstruct, delay, or prevent by any means an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(k) Fish in violation of the terms or conditions of any permit or authorization issued under the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other statute administered by NOAA.

(l) Fail to report catches as required while fishing pursuant to an exempted fishing permit.

(m) On a scientific research vessel, engage in fishing other than recreational fishing authorized by applicable state or Federal regulations.

(n) Trade, barter, or sell; or attempt to trade, barter, or sell fish possessed or retained while fishing pursuant to an authorization for an exempted educational activity.

(o) Harass or sexually harass an authorized officer or an observer.

(p) Fail to show proof of passing the USCG Commercial Fishing Vessel Safety Examination or the alternate NMFS safety equipment examination, or fail to maintain the vessel safety conditions necessary to pass the examination, when required by NMFS pursuant to § 600.746.

(q) Fail to display a Commercial Fishing Vessel Safety Examination decal or a valid certificate of compliance or inspection pursuant to § 600.746.

(r) Fail to provide to an observer, a NMFS employee, or a designated observer provider information that has been requested pursuant to § 600.746, or fail to allow an observer, a NMFS employee, or a designated observer provider to inspect any item described at § 600.746.

(s) Fish without an observer when the vessel is required to carry an observer.

(t) Assault, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with a NMFS-approved observer.

(u)(1) Prohibit or bar by command, impediment, threat, coercion, interference, or refusal of reasonable assistance, an observer from conducting his or her duties as an observer; or

(2) Tamper with or destroy samples or equipment.
