
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart H - General Provisions for Domestic Fisheries
##### § 600.747 Guidelines and procedures for determining new fisheries and gear.
###### Guidelines.

(b)The following guidance establishes the basis for determining when fishing gear or a fishery is sufficiently different from those listed to require notification of the appropriate Council or the Director.

(1) The initial step in the determination of whether a fishing gear or fishery is sufficiently different to require notification is to compare the gear or fishery in question to the list of authorized fisheries and gear in § 600.725(v) and to the existing gear definitions in § 600.10.

(2) If the gear in question falls within the bounds of a definition in § 600.10 for an allowable gear type within that fishery, as listed under § 600.725(v), then the gear is not considered different, is considered allowable gear, and does not require notification of the Council or Secretary 90 days before it can be used in that fishery.

(3) If, for any reason, the gear is not consistent with a gear definition for a listed fishery as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the gear is considered different and requires Council or Secretarial notification as described in paragraph (c) of this section 90 days before it can be used in that fishery.

(4) If a fishery falls within the bounds of the list of authorized fisheries and gear in § 600.725(v) under the Council's or Secretary's authority, then the fishery is not considered different, is considered an allowable fishery and does not require notification of the Council or Director before that fishery can occur.

(5) If a fishery is not already listed in the list of authorized fisheries and gear in § 600.725(v), then the fishery is considered different and requires notification as described in paragraph (c) of this section 90 days before it can occur.
