
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart H - General Provisions for Domestic Fisheries
##### ยง 600.747 Guidelines and procedures for determining new fisheries and gear.
###### Notification procedures.

(2)(i) A signed return receipt for the notice serves as adequate evidence of the date that the notification was received by the appropriate Council or the Director, in the case of Atlantic highly migratory species, and establishes the beginning of the 90-day notification period, unless required information in the notification is incomplete.

(ii) The notification must include:

(A) Name, address, and telephone number of the person submitting the notification.

(B) Description of the gear.

(C) The fishery or fisheries in which the gear is or will be used.

(D) A diagram and/or photograph of the gear, as well as any specifications and dimensions necessary to define the gear.

(E) The season(s) in which the gear will be fished.

(F) The area(s) in which the gear will be fished.

(G) The anticipated bycatch species associated with the gear, including protected species, such as marine mammals, sea turtles, sea birds, or species listed as endangered or threatened under the ESA.

(H) How the gear will be deployed and fished, including the portions of the marine environment where the gear will be deployed (surface, midwater, and bottom).

(iii) Failure to submit complete and accurate information will result in a delay in beginning the 90-day notification period. The 90-day notification period will not begin until the information received is determined to be accurate and complete.
