
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart I - Fishery Negotiation Panels
##### ยง 600.753 Notice of intent to establish a fishery negotiation panel.
###### Publication of notice.

(a)If, after considering the report of a convener or conducting its own assessment, a Council or NMFS decides to establish an FNP, NMFS shall publish in theand, as appropriate, in trade or other specialized publications, a document that shall include:

(1) An announcement that the Council or NMFS intends to establish an FNP to negotiate and develop a report concerning specific conservation and management measures.

(2) A description of the subject and scope of the conservation and management measure, and the issues to be considered.

(3) A list of the interests that are likely to be significantly affected by the conservation and management measure.

(4) A list of the persons proposed to represent such interests and the person or persons proposed to represent the Council or NMFS.

(5) A proposed agenda and schedule for completing the work of the FNP.

(6) A description of administrative support for the FNP to be provided by the Council or NMFS, including technical assistance.

(7) A solicitation for comments on the proposal to establish the FNP, and the proposed membership of the FNP.

(8) An explanation of how a person may apply or nominate another person for membership on the FNP, as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
