
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart M - Specific Fishery or Program Fishing Capacity Reduction Regulations
##### ยง 600.1102 Pacific Coast groundfish fee.
###### Deposit principal disbursement.

(3)Not later than the 14th calendar day after the last calendar day of each month, or more frequently if the amount in the account exceeds the account limit for insurance purposes, the fish buyer shall disburse to NMFS the full deposit principal then in the deposit account, provided that the deposit principal then totals $100 or more. If the deposit principal then totals less than $100, the fish buyer need not disburse the deposit principal until either the next month during which the deposit principal then totals $100 or more, or not later than the 14th calendar day after the last calendar day of any year in which the deposit principal has not since the last required disbursement totaled $100 or more, whichever comes first. The fish buyer shall disburse deposit principal by check made payable to the groundfish program's fund subaccount. The fish buyer shall mail each such check to the groundfish program's fund subaccount lockbox that NMFS establishes for the receipt of groundfish program disbursements. Each disbursement shall be accompanied by the fish buyer's fee collection report completed in the manner and form which NMFS specifies. NMFS will, before fee payment and collection begins, specify the groundfish program's fund subaccount lockbox and the manner and form of fee collection report. NMFS will do this by means of the notification in ยง 600.1013(d) of subpart L. NMFS' fee collection report instructions will include provisions for the fish buyer to specify the amount of each disbursement which was disbursed from the reduction fishery subaccount and/or from each of the six fee-share fishery subaccounts;
