
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart M - Specific Fishery or Program Fishing Capacity Reduction Regulations
##### ยง 600.1107 Southeast Alaska Purse Seine Salmon Fishery capacity reduction program, including fee payment and collection system.
###### The referendum.

(3)If NMFS approves the Reduction Plan and subsequent to the publication of a final rule resulting from this rule, NMFS shall conduct a referendum to determine the industry's willingness to repay a fishing capacity reduction loan to purchase the permits identified in the Reduction Plan. NMFS shall publish a notice in therequesting votes by Permit Holders on whether to accept or reject the Reduction Plan for implementation. The notice shall state the starting and ending dates and times of the voting period, which shall be not less than twenty one (21) nor more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of such notice.

(i) Such notice shall state the name and address of record of each eligible voter, as well as the basis for having determined the eligibility of those voters. This shall constitute notice and opportunity to respond about adding eligible voters, deleting ineligible voters, and/or correcting any voter's name and address of record, and will provide a 15 day period to make these changes. If, in NMFS' discretion, the comments received in response to such notice warrants it, or for other good cause, NMFS may modify such list by publishing another notice in theNMFS shall issue ballots to eligible voters, tally votes, and notify voters whether the referendum was successful or unsuccessful in approving the Reduction Plan consistent with the provisions of ยง 600.1010.

(ii) A successful referendum by a majority of the Permit Holders in the Reduction Fishery shall bind all parties and complete the reduction process. NMFS shall publish a notice in theadvising the public that the referendum was successful. Thereafter the Reduction Program shall be implemented.

(iii) The provisions of ยง 600.1010 and ยง 600.1017(a)(1)-(4) shall apply to any referendum on the Reduction Plan of this section to the extent that they do not conflict with this section or with subpart M of this part.
