
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 600 - MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT PROVISIONS
#### Subpart R - Standardized Bycatch Reporting Methodology
##### ยง 600.1610 Establishing and reviewing standardized bycatch reporting methodologies in fishery management plans.
###### Establishing a standardized reporting methodology,Fishery management plan contents.,e.g.,

(a)-(1)An FMP must identify the required procedure or procedures that constitute the standardized reporting methodology for the fishery. The required procedures may include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: Observer programs, electronic monitoring and reporting technologies, and self-reported mechanisms (recreational sampling, industry-reported catch and discard data). The FMP, or a fishery research plan authorized under 16 U.S.C. 1862, must explain how the standardized reporting methodology meets the purpose described in ยง 600.1600, based on an analysis of the requirements under ยง 600.1610(a)(2). The FMP, or fishery research plan authorized under 16 U.S.C. 1862, may reference analyses and information in other FMPs, FMP amendments, Stock Assessment and Fishery Evaluation (SAFE) reports, or other documents. Councils should work together and collaborate on standardized reporting methodologies for fisheries that operate across multiple jurisdictions, as appropriate. In addition to proposing regulations necessary to implement the standardized reporting methodology, a Council should also provide in its FMP, or a fishery research plan authorized under 16 U.S.C. 1862, guidance to NMFS on how to adjust implementation of a standardized reporting methodology consistent with the FMP. See National Standard 6 guidelines, ยง 600.335.
