
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 622.4 Permits and fees - general.
###### Vessel permits.

(1)(i) The application for a commercial vessel permit, other than for wreckfish, or for a charter vessel/headboat permit must be submitted by the owner (in the case of a corporation, an officer or shareholder; in the case of a partnership, a general partner) or operator of the vessel. A commercial vessel permit that is issued based on the earned income qualification of an operator is valid only when that person is the operator of the vessel. The applicant for a commercial vessel permit for wreckfish must be a wreckfish shareholder.

(ii) An applicant must provide the following:

(A) A copy of the vessel's valid USCG certificate of documentation or, if not documented, a copy of its valid state registration certificate.

(B) Vessel name and official number.

(C) Name, address, telephone number, and other identifying information of the vessel owner and of the applicant, if other than the owner.

(D) Any other information concerning the vessel, gear characteristics, principal fisheries engaged in, or fishing areas, as specified on the application form.

(E) Any other information that may be necessary for the issuance or administration of the permit, as specified on the application form.

(F) If applying for a commercial vessel permit, documentation, as specified in the instructions accompanying each application form, showing that applicable eligibility requirements of this part have been met.

(G) If a sea bass pot will be used, the number, dimensions, and estimated cubic volume of the pots that will be used and the applicant's desired color code for use in identifying his or her vessel and buoys (white is not an acceptable color code).
