
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 622.6 Vessel identification.
###### Official number and color code.

(2)The following vessels must display their official number as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and, in addition, must display their assigned color code: A vessel for which a permit has been issued to fish with a sea bass pot, as required under ยง 622.170(a)(1); and, in the EEZ around Puerto Rico, St. Croix, or St. Thomas and St. John, a vessel fishing commercially with traps for reef fish, as defined in subparts S through U of this part, or a vessel fishing for spiny lobster, when color codes are required and have been assigned to the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, as applicable. Color codes required for vessels fishing in the EEZ around Puerto Rico, St. Croix, or St. Thomas and St. John are assigned by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, as applicable. Color codes required in all other fisheries are assigned by the RA. The color code must be displayed-

(i) On the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull and, for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long, on an appropriate weather deck, so as to be clearly visible from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.

(ii) In the form of a circle permanently affixed to or painted on the vessel.

(iii) At least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in diameter for vessels over 65 ft (19.8 m) long; at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in diameter for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long; and at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) in diameter for vessels 25 ft (7.6 m) long or less.
