
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 622.13 Prohibitions - general.

In addition to the general prohibitions in § 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Engage in an activity for which a valid Federal permit, license, or endorsement is required under this part without such permit, license, or endorsement.

(b) Falsify information on an application for a permit, license, or endorsement or submitted in support of such application, as specified in this part.

(c) Fail to display a permit, license, or endorsement, or other required identification, as specified in this part.

(d) Falsify or fail to maintain, submit, or provide information or fail to comply with inspection requirements or restrictions, as specified in this part.

(e) Fail to make a fish, or parts thereof, available for inspection, as specified in this part.

(f) Falsify or fail to display and maintain vessel and gear identification, as specified in this part.

(g) Harvest or possess fish if the required charter vessel or headboat reports have not been submitted in accordance with this part.

(h) First receive fish from federally permitted vessels if the required reports have not been submitted in accordance with § 622.5(c).

(i) Fail to comply with any requirement or restriction regarding ITQ coupons, as specified in § 622.172.

(j) Possess wreckfish as specified in § 622.172, receive wreckfish except as specified in § 622.172, or offload a wreckfish except as specified in § 622.172.

(k) Transfer-

(1) A wreckfish, as specified in § 622.172;

(2) A limited-harvest species, as specified in this part;

(3) A species/species group subject to a bag limit, as specified in this part;

(4) South Atlantic snapper-grouper from a vessel with unauthorized gear on board, as specified in § 622.188; or

(5) A species subject to a commercial trip limit, as specified in this part.

(l) Use or possess prohibited gear or methods or possess fish in association with possession or use of prohibited gear, as specified in this part.

(m) Fish for, harvest, or possess a prohibited species, or a limited-harvest species in excess of its limitation, sell or purchase such species, fail to comply with release requirements, molest or strip eggs from a lobster, or possess a lobster, or part thereof, from which eggs, swimmerettes, or pleopids have been removed or stripped, as specified in this part.

(n) Fish in violation of the prohibitions, restrictions, and requirements applicable to seasonal and/or area closures, including but not limited to: Prohibition of all fishing, gear restrictions, restrictions on take or retention of fish, fish release requirements, and restrictions on use of an anchor or grapple, as specified in this part or as may be specified under this part.

(o) Harvest, possess, offload, sell, or purchase fish in excess of the seasonal harvest limitations, as specified in this part.

(p) Except as allowed for king and Spanish mackerel and Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic spiny lobster, possess undersized fish, fail to release undersized fish, or sell or purchase undersized fish, as specified in this part.

(q) Fail to maintain a fish intact through offloading ashore, as specified in this part.

(r) Exceed a bag or possession limit, as specified in this part.

(s) Fail to comply with the limitations on traps and pots, including but not limited to: Tending requirements, constructions requirements, and area specific restrictions, as specified in this part.

(t) Fail to comply with the species-specific limitations, as specified in this part.

(u) Fail to comply with the restrictions that apply after closure of a fishery, sector, or component of a fishery, as specified in this part.

(v) Possess on board a vessel or land, purchase, or sell fish in excess of the commercial trip limits, as specified in this part.

(w) Fail to comply with the restrictions on sale/purchase, as specified in this part.

(x) Interfere with fishing or obstruct or damage fishing gear or the fishing vessel of another, as specified in this part.

(y) Fail to comply with the requirements for observer coverage as specified in this part.

(z) Assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with a NMFS-approved observer aboard a vessel.

(aa) Prohibit or bar by command, impediment, threat, coercion, or refusal of reasonable assistance, an observer from conducting his or her duties aboard a vessel.

(bb) Fish for or possess golden crab in or from a fishing zone or sub-zone of the South Atlantic EEZ other than the zone or sub-zone for which the vessel is permitted or authorized, as specified in § 622.241.

(cc) Falsify information submitted regarding an application for testing a BRD or regarding testing of a BRD, as specified in §§ 622.53 and 622.207.

(dd) Make a false statement, oral or written, to an authorized officer regarding the installation, use, operation, or maintenance of a vessel monitoring system (VMS) unit or communication service provider.

(ee) Operate or own a vessel that is required to have a permitted operator aboard when the vessel is at sea or offloading without such operator aboard, as specified in this part.

(ff) When a vessel that is subject to Federal fishing regulations is at sea or offloading, own or operate such vessel with a person aboard whose operator permit is revoked, suspended, or modified.

(gg) Fail to comply with any provision related to a vessel monitoring system (VMS) as specified in this part, including but not limited to, requirements for use, installation, activation, access to data, procedures related to interruption of VMS operation, and prohibitions on interference with the VMS.

(hh) Fail to comply with the protected species conservation measure as specified in this part.

(ii) Fail to comply with any provision related to the IFQ program for Gulf red snapper as specified in § 622.21, or the IFQ program for Gulf groupers and tilefishes as specified in § 622.22.

(jj) Falsify any information required to be submitted regarding the IFQ program for Gulf red snapper as specified in § 622.21, or the IFQ program for Gulf groupers and tilefishes as specified in § 622.22.

(kk) Fail to comply with the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic spiny lobster import prohibitions, as specified in this part.

(ll) Possess a Gulf of Mexico or South Atlantic spiny lobster trap in the EEZ at a time not authorized, as specified in subpart R.

(mm) Harvest or attempt to harvest a Gulf of Mexico or South Atlantic spiny lobster by diving without having and using in the water a measuring device, as specified in subpart R.

(nn) Possess Gulf of Mexico or South Atlantic spiny lobsters aboard a vessel that uses or has on board a net or trawl in an amount exceeding the limits, as specified in subpart R.

(oo) Operate a vessel that fishes for or possesses Gulf of Mexico or South Atlantic spiny lobster in or from the EEZ with spiny lobster aboard in an amount exceeding the cumulative bag and possession limit, as specified in subpart R.

(pp) Fail to comply with any provision related to the Offshore Marine Aquaculture program in the Gulf of Mexico as specified in this part.

(qq) Falsify any information required to be submitted regarding the Offshore Marine Aquaculture program in the Gulf of Mexico as specified in this part.

(rr) Land allowable aquaculture species cultured in the Gulf at non-U.S. ports, unless first landed at a U.S. port.

(ss) Fail to comply with any other requirement or restriction specified in this part or violate any provision(s) in this part.
