
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart B - Reef Fish Resources of the Gulf of Mexico
##### ยง 622.22 Individual fishing quota (IFQ) program for Gulf groupers and tilefishes.
###### Gulf grouper and tilefish IFQ program participation for current grouper and tilefish IFQ account holders.,https://secatchshares.fisheries.noaa.gov,

(11)(i) A current participant in the Gulf grouper and tilefish IFQ program must complete and submit the application for an IFQ Account that is available on the websiteto certify status as a U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien. The account holder must also complete and submit any other information on this form that may be necessary for the administration of the IFQ account.

(ii) A person with an established IFQ account must update and confirm the account information every 2 years. IFQ accounts are updated through the submission of the application for an IFQ Account. Accounts must be updated prior to the account validity date (expiration date of the account) that is displayed on each account holder's IFQ account page. The RA will provide each participant who has established an online account an application approximately 2 months prior to the account validity date. A participant who is not provided an application at least 45 days prior to the account validity date must contact IFQ Customer Service at 1-866-425-7627 and request an application. Failure to submit a completed application prior to the participant's account validity date will lead to the suspension of the participant's access to his IFQ account until a completed application is submitted. Participants who certify that they are either not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien will be ineligible to receive shares or allocation through transfer.
