
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 13 - GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Permit Administration
###### ยง 13.28 Permit revocation.
####### Procedure for revocation.

(b)(1) When the issuing officer believes there are valid grounds for revoking a permit, the permittee shall be notified in writing of the proposed revocation by certified or registered mail. This notice shall identify the permit to be revoked, the reason(s) for such revocation, the proposed disposition of the wildlife, if any, and inform the permittee of the right to object to the proposed revocation. The issuing officer may amend any notice of revocation at any time.

(2) Upon receipt of a notice of proposed revocation the permittee may file a written objection to the proposed action. Such objection must be in writing, must be filed within 45 calendar days of the date of the notice of proposal, must state the reasons why the permittee objects to the proposed revocation, and may include supporting documentation.

(3) A decision on the revocation shall be made within 45 days after the end of the objection period. The issuing officer shall notify the permittee in writing of the Service's decision and the reasons therefore, together with the information concerning the right to request and the procedures for requesting reconsideration.

(4) Unless a permittee files a timely request for reconsideration, any wildlife held under authority of a permit that is revoked must be disposed of in accordance with instructions of the issuing officer. If a permittee files a timely request for reconsideration of a proposed revocation, such permittee may retain possession of any wildlife held under authority of the permit until final disposition of the appeal process.
