
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart C - Shrimp Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico
##### ยง 622.55 Closed areas.
###### Tortugas shrimp sanctuary.

(c)(1) The Tortugas shrimp sanctuary is closed to trawling. The Tortugas shrimp sanctuary is that part of the EEZ off Florida shoreward of rhumb lines connecting, in order, the following points:

(2) The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section notwithstanding-

(i) Effective from April 11 through September 30, each year, that part of the Tortugas shrimp sanctuary seaward of rhumb lines connecting the following points is open to trawling: From point T at 24&#xB0;47.8&#x2032; N. lat., 82&#xB0;01.0&#x2032; W. long. to point U at 24&#xB0;43.83&#x2032; N. lat., 82&#xB0;01.0&#x2032; W. long. (on the line denoting the seaward limit of Florida's waters); thence along the seaward limit of Florida's waters, as shown on the current edition of NOAA chart 11439, to point V at 24&#xB0;42.55&#x2032; N. lat., 82&#xB0;15.0&#x2032; W. long.; thence north to point W at 24&#xB0;43.6&#x2032; N. lat., 82&#xB0;15.0&#x2032; W. long.

(ii) Effective from April 11 through July 31, each year, that part of the Tortugas shrimp sanctuary seaward of rhumb lines connecting the following points is open to trawling: From point W to point V, both points as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, to point G, as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) Effective from May 26 through July 31, each year, that part of the Tortugas shrimp sanctuary seaward of rhumb lines connecting the following points is open to trawling: From point F, as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to point Q at 24&#xB0;46.7&#x2032; N lat., 81&#xB0;52.2&#x2032; W long. (on the line denoting the seaward limit of Florida's waters); thence along the seaward limit of Florida's waters, as shown on the current edition of NOAA chart 11439, to point U and north to point T, both points as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
