
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart F - Offshore Marine Aquaculture in the Gulf of Mexico
##### ยง 622.100 General.
###### Electronic system requirements.,e.g.,,http://sero.nmfs.noaa.gov/sustainable_fisheries/gulf_fisheries/aquaculture/

(a)(1) The administrative functions associated with this aquaculture program,registration and account setup, landing transactions and most reporting requirements, are intended to be accomplished online via the Southeast Regional Office's Web site attherefore, a participant must have access to a computer and Internet access and must set up an appropriate online aquaculture account to participate. Assistance with online functions is available from the Permits Office, Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. eastern time; telephone: 1 (877) 376-4877. If some online reporting functions are not available at the time of initial implementation of this aquaculture program, this will be indicated on the Web site and participants may comply by submitting the required information via email using the appropriate forms that are available on the Web site. Once online functions are available, participants must comply by using the online system unless alternative methods are specified.

(2) The RA will mail each person who is issued a Gulf aquaculture permit or a Gulf aquaculture dealer permit information and instructions pertinent to using the online system and setting up an online aquaculture account. The RA also will mail each permittee a user identification number and will provide each permittee a personal identification number (PIN) in a subsequent letter. Each permittee must monitor his/her online account and all associated messages and comply with all online reporting requirements.

(3) During catastrophic conditions only, the RA may authorize use of paper-based components for basic required functions as a backup to what would normally be reported electronically. The RA will determine when catastrophic conditions exist, the duration of the catastrophic conditions, and which participants or geographic areas are deemed affected by the catastrophic conditions. The RA will provide timely notice to affected participants via publication of notification in theNOAA weather radio, fishery bulletins, and other appropriate means and will authorize the affected participants' use of paper-based components for the duration of the catastrophic conditions. NMFS will provide each aquaculture permittee the necessary paper forms, sequentially coded, and instructions for submission of the forms to the RA. The paper forms also will be available from the RA. The program functions available to participants or geographic areas deemed affected by catastrophic conditions may be limited under the paper-based system. Assistance in complying with the requirements of the paper-based system will be available via the Permits Office, Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., eastern time; telephone: 1 (877) 376-4877.

(b) [Reserved]
