
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart Q - Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources (Gulf of Mexico, South Atlantic, and Mid-Atlantic)
##### ยง 622.385 Commercial trip limits.
###### King mackerel,Atlantic migratory group.

(a)-(1)The following trip limits apply to vessels for which commercial permits for king mackerel have been issued, as required under ยง 622.370(a)(1):

(i) North of 29&#xB0;25&#x2032; N. lat., which is a line directly east from the Flagler/Volusia County, FL, boundary, king mackerel in or from the EEZ may not be possessed on board or landed from a vessel in a day in amounts exceeding 3,500 lb (1,588 kg).

(ii) In the area between 29&#xB0;25&#x2032; N lat., which is a line directly east from the Flagler/Volusia County, FL, boundary, and 28&#xB0;47&#x2032;48" N lat., which is a line directly east from the Volusia/Brevard County, FL, boundary, king mackerel in or from the EEZ may not be possessed on board or landed from a vessel in a day in amounts not to exceed:

(A) From March 1 through March 31-75 fish.

(B) From April 1 through September 30-3,500 lb (1,588 kg).

(C) From October 1 through the end of February-100 fish.

(iii) In the area between 28&#xB0;47&#x2032;48" N lat., which is a line directly east from the Volusia/Brevard County, FL, boundary, and 25&#xB0;20&#x2032;24" N lat., which is a line directly east from the Miami-Dade/Monroe County, FL, boundary, king mackerel in or from the EEZ may not be possessed on board or landed from a vessel in a day in amounts not to exceed:

(A) From March 1 through March 31-75 fish.

(B) From April 1 through September 30-75 fish, unless NMFS determines that 75 percent or more of the quota specified in ยง 622.384(b)(2)(ii)(A) has been landed, then, 50 fish.

(C) From October 1 through the end of February-100 fish.
