
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart Q - Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources (Gulf of Mexico, South Atlantic, and Mid-Atlantic)
##### ยง 622.386 Restrictions on sale/purchase.
###### State-permitted tournaments.

(e)King or Spanish mackerel harvested in a state-permitted tournament in the South Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, or the Gulf may not be sold for profit but may be donated to a state dealer or Federal dealer. Dealers accepting these tournament-caught king or Spanish mackerel must be permitted and must comply with all transfer and reporting requirements. Federally permitted dealers who accept donated king or Spanish mackerel under this section are exempt from the restrictions in paragraph (c) of this section, and can first receive these fish from non-federally permitted vessels. Dealers must donate the monetary value (sale price or cash equivalent of value received for the landings) from the sale of tournament-caught fish to a charitable organization, as determined by the state. The monetary value received from the sale of tournament-caught fish may not be used to pay for tournament expenses. In addition, the fish must be handled and iced according to the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) standards, and dealers must report tournament caught king and Spanish mackerel as "tournament catch" and comply with all Federal and state reporting requirements.
