
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart R - Spiny Lobster Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic
##### ยง 622.400 Permits and fees.
###### Applications for permits.

(b)(1) An application for a Federal vessel and/or tail-separation permit must be submitted and signed by the owner (in the case of a corporation, a qualifying officer or shareholder; in the case of a partnership, a qualifying general partner) or operator of the vessel. The application must be submitted to the RA at least 30 days prior to the date on which the applicant desires to have the permit made effective.

(2) An applicant must provide the following information:

(i) A copy of the vessel's U.S. Coast Guard certificate of documentation or, if not documented, a copy of its state registration certificate.

(ii) The vessel's name and official number.

(iii) Name, mailing address including zip code, telephone number, social security number, and date of birth of the owner (if the owner is a corporation/partnership, in lieu of the social security number, provide the employer identification number, if one has been assigned by the Internal Revenue Service, and, in lieu of the date of birth, provide the date the corporation/partnership was formed).

(iv) If the owner does not meet the earned income qualification specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section and the operator does meet that qualification, the name, mailing address including zip code, telephone number, social security number, and date of birth of the operator.

(v) Information concerning vessel, gear used, fishing areas, and fisheries vessel is used in, as requested by the RA and included on the application form.

(vi) A sworn statement by the applicant for a vessel permit certifying that at least 10 percent of his or her earned income was derived from commercial fishing, that is, sale of the catch, during the calendar year preceding the application.

(vii) Documentation supporting the statement of income, if required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(viii) If a tail-separation permit is desired, a sworn statement by the applicant certifying that his or her fishing activity-

(A) Is routinely conducted in the EEZ on trips of 48 hours or more; and

(B) Necessitates the separation of carapace and tail to maintain a quality product.

(ix) Any other information that may be necessary for the issuance or administration of the permit.

(3) The RA may require the applicant to provide documentation supporting the sworn statement under paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section before a permit is issued or to substantiate why such permit should not be revoked or otherwise sanctioned under paragraph (i) of this section. Such required documentation may include copies of appropriate forms and schedules from the applicant's income tax return. Copies of income tax forms and schedules are treated as confidential.
