
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Subpart U - FMP for the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John
##### ยง 622.515 Annual catch limits (ACLs), annual catch targets (ACTs), and accountability measures (AMs).
###### Reef fish.

(a)(1) The following ACLs are as follows and given in round weight.

(2) At or near the beginning of the fishing year, landings for each stock, stock complex, or indicator stock will be evaluated relative to the ACL based on a moving multi-year average of landings, as described in the FMP. If NMFS estimates that landings for a stock, stock complex, or indicator stock have exceeded the ACL specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the stock or stock complex, the Assistant Administrator for NOAA Fisheries (AA) will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to reduce the length of the fishing season for the stock or stock complex within that fishing year by the amount necessary to prevent landings from exceeding the ACL for the stock or stock complex, unless NMFS determines that a fishing season reduction is not necessary based on the best scientific information available. If NMFS determines that the ACL for a particular stock or stock complex was exceeded because data collection or monitoring improved rather than because landings increased, NMFS will not reduce the length of the fishing season for the stock or stock complex. Any fishing season reduction required under this paragraph (a)(2) will be applied starting from September 30 and moving earlier toward the beginning of the fishing year. If the length of the required fishing season reduction exceeds the time period of January 1 through September 30, any additional fishing season reduction will be applied starting from October 1 and moving later toward the end of the fishing year.
