
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 622 - FISHERIES OF THE CARIBBEAN, GULF OF MEXICO, AND SOUTH ATLANTIC
#### Appendix D to Part 622 - Specifications for Certified BRDs
##### Alternative Method for Constructing the Funnel and Escape Openings.

(g)The following method for constructing the funnel and escape openings may be used instead of the method described in paragraphs F.2.d., F.2.e., and F.2.f. of this section. With this alternative method, the funnel and escape openings are formed by cutting a flap in each side of the extension webbing; pushing the flaps inward; and attaching the top and bottom edges along the bars of the extension webbing to form the v-shape of the funnel. Minimum requirements applicable to this method include: The funnel's top and bottom back edges must be attached one mesh behind the 28-inch (71.1-cm) cable hoop (front hoop); clearance between the side of the funnel and the 28-inch (71.1-cm) cable hoop (front hoop) must be at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) when measured in the hanging position; the leading edge of the escape opening must be located within 18 inches (45.7 cm) of the posterior edge of the turtle excluder device (TED) grid; and, the area of the escape opening must total at least 864 in(5,574.2 cm). To construct the funnel and escape openings using this method, begin 3meshes from the leading edge of the extension, at the top center seam, count over 18 meshes on each side, and cut 13 meshes toward the back of the extension. Turn parallel to the leading edge, and cut 26 meshes toward the bottom center of the extension. Next, turn parallel to the top center seam, and cut 13 meshes forward toward the leading edge, creating a flap of webbing 13 meshes by 26 meshes by 13 meshes. Lengthen the flap to 18 meshes by adding a 4-mesh by 26-mesh rectangular section of webbing to the 26-mesh edge. Attach the 18-mesh edges to the top and bottom of the extension by sewing 2 bars of the extension to 1 mesh on the flap in toward the top center and bottom center of the extension, forming the exit opening and the funnel. Connect the two flaps together in the center with a 7-inch piece of number 42 twine to allow adequate clearance for fish escapement between the flaps and the side openings. On each side, sew a 6-mesh by 10-mesh section of webbing to 6 meshes of the center of the 26-mesh cut on the extension and 6 meshes centered between the 13-mesh cuts 3meshes from the leading edge. This forms two 10-mesh by 13-mesh openings on each side.
