
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) The regulations in this part govern the conservation and management of Atlantic tunas, Atlantic billfish, Atlantic sharks, and Atlantic swordfish under the authority of the Magnuson-Stevens Act and ATCA. They implement the 2006 Consolidated Highly Migratory Species Fishery Management Plan and its amendments. The Atlantic tunas regulations govern conservation and management of Atlantic tunas in the management unit. The Atlantic billfish regulations govern conservation and management of Atlantic billfish in the management unit. The Atlantic swordfish regulations govern conservation and management of North and South Atlantic swordfish in the management unit. North Atlantic swordfish are managed under the authority of both ATCA and the Magnuson-Stevens Act. South Atlantic swordfish are managed under the sole authority of ATCA. The shark regulations govern conservation and management of sharks in the management unit, under the authority of the Magnuson-Stevens Act.

(b) Under section 9(d) of ATCA, NMFS has determined that the regulations contained in this part with respect to Atlantic tunas are applicable within the territorial sea of the United States adjacent to, and within the boundaries of, the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas, and the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. NMFS will undertake a continuing review of State regulations to determine if regulations applicable to Atlantic tunas, swordfish, or billfish are at least as restrictive as regulations contained in this part and if such regulations are effectively enforced. In such case, NMFS will file with the Office of the Federal Register for publication notification of the basis for the determination and of the specific regulations that shall or shall not apply in the territorial sea of the identified State.
