
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.4 Permits and fees.
###### Shark vessel permits.

(e)(1) The owner of each vessel used to fish for or take Atlantic sharks or on which Atlantic sharks are retained, possessed with an intention to sell, or sold must obtain, in addition to any other required permits, at least one of the Federal Atlantic commercial shark permits described below or an HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit. A Federal Atlantic commercial shark permit or HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit is not required if the vessel is recreationally fishing and retains no more sharks than the recreational retention limit specified in ยง 635.22(c), is operating pursuant to the conditions of a shark display or EFP issued pursuant to ยง 635.32, or fishes exclusively within State waters. It is a rebuttable presumption that the owner or operator of a vessel without a permit issued pursuant to this part, on which sharks are possessed in excess of the recreational retention limits, intends to sell the sharks.

(2) The owner of vessels that fish for, take, retain, or possess the Atlantic oceanic sharks listed in headings A, B, or C of Table 1 of appendix A to this part with an intention to sell must obtain a Federal Atlantic commercial shark directed or incidental LAP or an HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit. The only valid Federal commercial shark directed and shark incidental LAPs are those that have been issued under the limited access program consistent with the provisions under paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section.

(3) A vessel owner issued or required to be issued a Federal Atlantic commercial shark directed or shark incidental LAP may harvest, consistent with the other regulations in this part, any shark species listed in headings A, B, or C of Table 1 of appendix A to this part.

(4) Owners of vessels that fish for, take, retain, or possess the Atlantic oceanic sharks listed in heading E, Smoothhound Sharks, of Table 1 of appendix A to this part with an intention to sell them must obtain a Federal commercial smoothhound permit. In addition to other permits issued pursuant to this section or other authorities, a Federal commercial smoothhound permit may be issued to a vessel alone or to a vessel that also holds either a Federal Atlantic commercial shark directed or incidental LAP.
