
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.4 Permits and fees.
###### Swordfish vessel permits.

(f)(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, the owner of a vessel of the United States used to fish for or take swordfish commercially from the management unit, or on which swordfish from the management unit are retained or possessed with an intention to sell, or from which swordfish are sold, must obtain an HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a commercial sale endorsement issued under paragraph (b) of this section, or one of the following swordfish permits: A swordfish directed LAP, swordfish incidental LAP, swordfish handgear LAP, or a Swordfish General Commercial permit. These permits cannot be held in combination with each other on the same vessel, except that an HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a commercial sale endorsement may be held in combination with a swordfish handgear LAP on the same vessel. It is a rebuttable presumption that the owner or operator of a vessel on which swordfish are possessed in excess of the recreational retention limits intends to sell the swordfish.

(2) The only valid commercial Federal vessel permits for swordfish are the HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a commercial sale endorsement issued under paragraph (b) of this section (and only when on a non for-hire trip), the Swordfish General Commercial permit issued under paragraph (f) of this section, a swordfish LAP issued consistent with paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section, or permits issued under paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.

(3) A commercial Federal permit for swordfish is not required if the vessel is recreational fishing.

(4) A directed or incidental swordfish LAP is valid only when the vessel has on board a valid shark LAP and a valid Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP issued for such vessel.

(5) A Swordfish General Commercial permit may not be held on a vessel in conjunction with an HMS Charter/Headboat permit issued under paragraph (b) of this section, an HMS Angling category permit issued under paragraph (c) of this section, a swordfish LAP issued consistent with paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section, an Incidental HMS Squid Trawl permit issued under paragraph (n) of this section, or an HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit issued under paragraph (o) of this section. A vessel issued a Swordfish General Commercial open access permit for a fishing year shall not be issued an HMS Angling permit or an HMS Charter/Headboat permit for that same fishing year, regardless of a change in the vessel's ownership.
