
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.4 Permits and fees.
###### Permit issuance.

(j)(1) NMFS will issue a permit within 30 days of receipt of a complete and qualifying application. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, and documentation have been received, including all reports and fishing or catch information required to be submitted under this part.

(2) NMFS will notify the applicant of any deficiency in the application, including failure to provide information or reports required to be submitted under this part. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned.

(3) A vessel owner issued an Atlantic Tunas permit in the General, Harpoon, or Trap category or an Atlantic HMS permit in the Angling or Charter/Headboat category under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section may change the category of the vessel permit at any time during the fishing year, provided the vessel has not landed BFT during that fishing year as verified by NMFS via landings data.

(4) In order to obtain a shark endorsement to fish for, retain, possess, or land sharks, a vessel owner with a vessel fishing in a registered recreational HMS fishing tournament and issued or required to be issued either an Atlantic Tunas General category or Swordfish General Commercial permit or a vessel owner of a vessel issued or required to be issued an HMS Angling or HMS Charter/Headboat permit must take a shark endorsement online quiz. After completion of the quiz, NMFS will issue the vessel owner a new or revised permit with the shark endorsement for the vessel. The vessel owner can take the quiz at any time during the fishing year, but his or her vessel may not leave the dock on a trip during which sharks will be fished for, retained, possessed, or landed unless a new or revised permit with a shark endorsement has been issued by NMFS for the vessel. The addition of a shark endorsement to the permit does not constitute a permit category change and does not change the timing considerations for permit category changes specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section. Vessel owners may request that NMFS remove the shark endorsement from the permit at any time. If NMFS removes the shark endorsement from the vessel permit, no person on board the vessel may fish for, retain, possess, or land sharks.
