
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.4 Permits and fees.
###### Shark, swordfish, and tuna longline LAPs.

(2)(i) Subject to the restrictions on upgrading the harvesting capacity of permitted vessels in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, as applicable, and to the limitations on ownership of permitted vessels in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section, an owner may transfer a shark or swordfish LAP or an Atlantic Tunas Longline category permit to another vessel that he or she owns or to another person. Directed handgear LAPs for swordfish may be transferred to another vessel or to another person but only for use with handgear and subject to the upgrading restrictions in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section and the limitations on ownership of permitted vessels in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section. Shark directed and incidental LAPs, swordfish directed and incidental LAPs, and Atlantic Tunas Longline category permits are not subject to the upgrading requirements specified in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section. Shark and swordfish incidental LAPs are not subject to the ownership requirements specified in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) An owner may upgrade a vessel with a swordfish handgear LAP, or transfer such permit to another vessel or to another person, and be eligible to retain or renew such permit only if the upgrade or transfer does not result in an increase in horsepower of more than 20 percent or an increase of more than 10 percent in length overall, gross registered tonnage, or net tonnage from the vessel baseline specifications.

(A) The vessel baseline specifications are the respective specifications (length overall, gross registered tonnage, net tonnage, horsepower) of the first vessel that was issued an initial LAP or, if applicable, of that vessel's replacement owned as of May 28, 1999.

(B) Subsequent to the issuance of a swordfish handgear LAP, the vessel's horsepower may be increased, relative to the baseline specifications of the vessel initially issued the LAP, through refitting, replacement, or transfer. Such an increase may not exceed 20 percent of the baseline specifications of the vessel initially issued the LAP.

(C) Subsequent to the issuance of a swordfish handgear LAP, the vessel's length overall, gross registered tonnage, and net tonnage may be increased, relative to the baseline specifications of the vessel initially issued the LAP, through refitting, replacement, or transfer. An increase in any of these three specifications of vessel size may not exceed 10 percent of the baseline specifications of the vessel initially issued the LAP. This type of upgrade may be done separately from an engine horsepower upgrade.

(iii) No person or entity may own or control more than 5 percent of the vessels for which swordfish directed, shark directed, or Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAPs have been issued.

(iv) In order to transfer a swordfish, shark, or an Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP to a replacement vessel, the owner of the vessel issued the LAP must submit a request to NMFS, at an address designated by NMFS, to transfer the LAP to another vessel, subject to requirements specified in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, if applicable. The owner must return the current valid LAP to NMFS with a complete application for a LAP, as specified in paragraph (h) of this section, for the replacement vessel. Copies of both vessels' U.S. Coast Guard documentation or state registration must accompany the application.

(v) For swordfish, shark, and Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP transfers to a different person, the transferee must submit a request to NMFS, at an address designated by NMFS, to transfer the original LAP(s), subject to the requirements specified in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, if applicable. The following must accompany the completed application: The original LAP(s) with signatures of both parties to the transaction on the back of the permit(s) and the bill of sale for the permit(s). A person must include copies of both vessels' U.S. Coast Guard documentation or state registration for LAP transfers involving vessels.

(vi) For LAP transfers in conjunction with the sale of the permitted vessel, the transferee of the vessel and LAP(s) issued to that vessel must submit a request to NMFS, at an address designated by NMFS, to transfer the limited access permit(s) LAP(s), subject to the requirements specified in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, if applicable. The following must accompany the completed application: The original LAP(s) with signatures of both parties to the transaction on the back of the permit(s), the bill of sale for the LAP(s) and the vessel, and a copy of the vessel's U.S. Coast Guard documentation or state registration.

(vii) The owner of a vessel issued a LAP(s) who sells the permitted vessel but retains the LAP(s) must notify NMFS within 30 days after the sale of the change in application information in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. If the owner wishes to transfer the LAP(s) to a replacement vessel, he/she must apply according to the procedures in paragraph (l)(2)(iv) of this section.

(viii) As specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, a directed or incidental swordfish LAP, a directed or incidental shark LAP, and an Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP are required to retain swordfish for commercial purposes. Accordingly, a swordfish LAP obtained by transfer without either a directed or incidental shark LAP or an Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP will not entitle an owner or operator to use a vessel to fish in the swordfish fishery.

(ix) As specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a directed or incidental swordfish LAP, a directed or incidental shark LAP, and an Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP are required to retain Atlantic tunas taken by pelagic longline gear. Accordingly, an Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP obtained by transfer without either a directed or incidental swordfish or shark LAP will not entitle an owner or operator to use the permitted vessel to fish in the Atlantic tunas fishery with pelagic longline gear.
