
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 635.5 Recordkeeping and reporting.
###### Chartering arrangements.

(5)(i) For the purposes of this section, a chartering arrangement means any contract, agreement, or commitment between a U.S. vessel owner and a foreign entity (e.g., government, company, person) by which the control, use, possession, or services of a vessel are secured, for a period of time for fishing targeting Atlantic HMS. Chartering arrangements under this part do not include bareboat charters under which a vessel enters into a fishing agreement with a foreign entity, changes registration to fish under another country's registration then, once the agreed-upon fishing is completed, reverts back to the vessel's original registration.

(ii) Before fishing under a chartering arrangement, the owner of a fishing vessel subject to U.S. jurisdiction must apply for, and obtain, a chartering permit as specified in ยง 635.32(e) and (g). If a chartering permit is obtained, the vessel owner must submit catch information as specified in the terms and conditions of that permit. All catches will be recorded and counted against the applicable quota of the Contracting Party to which the chartering foreign entity is a member and, unless otherwise provided in the chartering permit, must be offloaded in the ports of the chartering foreign entity or offloaded under the direct supervision of the chartering foreign entity.

(iii) If the chartering arrangement terminates before the expiration of the charter permit, the vessel owner must notify NMFS immediately and in writing, upon termination of the chartering arrangement. Such notification requirements shall also apply to situations where the chartering arrangement is temporarily suspended and during intermittent periods where the vessel may be fishing under U.S. quotas for Atlantic HMS.
