
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 635.5 Recordkeeping and reporting.
###### Atlantic HMS.

(1)(i) Dealers that have been issued or should have been issued a Federal Atlantic BAYS tunas, swordfish, and/or shark dealer permit under § 635.4 must submit to NMFS all reports required under this section within the timeframe specified under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. BAYS tunas, swordfish, and sharks commercially-harvested by a vessel can only be first received by dealers that have been issued or should have been issued an Atlantic tunas, swordfish, and/or shark dealer permit under § 635.4. All federal Atlantic HMS dealers must provide a detailed report of all fish first received to NMFS within the period specified under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. All reports must be species-specific and must include the required information about all swordfish and sharks received by the dealer, including the required vessel information, regardless of where the fish were harvested or whether the harvesting vessel is permitted under § 635.4. For sharks, each report must specify the total weight of the carcass(es) without the fins for each species, and the total fin weight by grade for all sharks combined. Dealers are also required to submit "negative" reports, indicating no receipt of any species, within the timeframe specified under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section if they did not first receive any fish during the reporting period. As stated in § 635.4(a)(6), failure to comply with these recordkeeping and reporting requirements may result in existing dealer permit(s) being revoked, suspended, or modified, and in the denial of any permit applications.

(ii) Reports of any Atlantic BAYS tunas, sharks, and/or swordfish first received by dealers from a vessel must be submitted electronically on a weekly basis through a NMFS-approved electronic reporting system by the dealer and received by NMFS no later than midnight, local time, of the first Tuesday following the end of the reporting week unless the dealer is otherwise notified by NMFS. Reports of BAYS tunas, sharks, and/or swordfish may be modified for not more than 30 days from when the dealer report is submitted to NMFS. NMFS will require BAYS tunas, swordfish, and shark dealers to submit dealer reports to NMFS on a weekly basis. Atlantic BAYS tunas, sharks, and swordfish dealers must submit electronic negative reports stating that no BAYS tunas, sharks, and/or swordfish were first received when they received no fish of these species, and no parts thereof, during the reporting period. Reporting requirements for bluefin tuna are specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The negative reporting requirement does not apply for bluefin tuna.

(iii) Atlantic HMS dealers are not authorized to first receive Atlantic swordfish, sharks, and/or BAYS tunas if the required reports have not been submitted and received by NMFS according to reporting requirements under this section. Delinquent reports automatically result in an Atlantic HMS dealer becoming ineligible to first receive Atlantic swordfish, sharks, and/or BAYS tunas. Atlantic HMS dealers who become ineligible to first receive Atlantic swordfish, sharks, and/or BAYS tunas due to delinquent reports are authorized to first receive Atlantic swordfish, sharks, and/or BAYS tunas only once all required and delinquent reports have been completed, submitted by the dealer, and received by NMFS.
