
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart B - Individual Vessel Measures
##### ยง 635.15 Individual bluefin tuna quotas (IBQs).
###### Low GOM-designated share threshold.

(iii)If NMFS determines that the total amount of GOM-designated IBQ shares is 5 percent or less of the total IBQ shares, NMFS will file an action with the Office of the Federal Register for publication that suspends for that year the requirement to account for BFT caught in the Gulf of Mexico with GOM-designated shares and resultant allocations (paragraph (f)(1) of this section) and the minimum GOM IBQ allocation requirement (paragraph (f)(2) of this section). NMFS will also notify IBQ shareholders of such action per paragraph (e) of this section. In this situation, IBQ shareholders' vessels could fish in the Gulf of Mexico during that year using ATL-designated IBQ allocations. Any vessels fishing in the Gulf of Mexico would still need to account for BFT catch and have the minimum IBQ allocation of 0.25 mt ww (551 lb ww) before departing on the first fishing trip in a calendar year quarter. Those vessels that fish in the Gulf of Mexico may be issued GOM IBQ shares in the following year per the regional designation of shares process described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. BFT catch (landings and dead discards) from the Gulf of Mexico by pelagic longline vessels will be capped at the weight of BFT equivalent to the GOM share cap (see paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section) in the applicable year. If this level of catch is reached, or projected to be reached, NMFS will prohibit fishing with pelagic longline gear in the Gulf of Mexico for the rest of the year pursuant to ยง 635.28(a)(1).
