
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart C - Management Measures
##### ยง 635.23 Retention limits for bluefin tuna.
###### General category.

(a)(1) No person aboard a vessel that has an Atlantic Tunas General category permit may possess, retain, land, or sell a BFT in the school, large school, or small medium size class.

(2) On an RFD, no person aboard a vessel that has been issued an Atlantic Tunas General category permit may fish for, possess, retain, land, or sell a BFT of any size class, and catch-and-release or tag-and-release fishing for BFT under ยง 635.26(a) is not authorized from such vessel. On days other than RFDs, and when the General category is open, large medium or giant BFT may be caught and landed from such vessels up to the daily retention limit in effect for that day. NMFS will annually publish a schedule of RFDs in the.

(3) Regardless of the length of a trip, no more than a single day's retention limit of large medium or giant BFT may be possessed or retained aboard a vessel that has an Atlantic Tunas General category permit. On days other than RFDs, when the General category is open, no person aboard such vessel may continue to fish, and the vessel must immediately proceed to port, once the applicable limit for large medium or giant BFT is retained.

(4) To provide for maximum utilization of the quota for BFT, and as allowed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, NMFS may increase or decrease the daily retention limit of large medium and giant BFT over a range from zero (on RFDs) to a maximum of five per vessel. Such increase or decrease will be based on the criteria provided under ยง 635.27(a)(7). NMFS will adjust the daily retention limit by filing an adjustment with the Office of the Federal Register for publication. Previously designated RFDs may be waived effective upon closure of the General category fishery so that persons aboard vessels permitted in the General category may conduct tag-and-release fishing for BFT under ยง 635.26(a).
