
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart C - Management Measures
##### ยง 635.24 Commercial retention limits for sharks, swordfish, and BAYS tunas.
###### Regional retention limits.

(iii)The swordfish regional retention limits for each region will range from 0 to 18 swordfish per vessel per trip. At the start of each fishing year, the default regional retention limits will apply. During the fishing year, NMFS may adjust the default retention limits per the inseason regional retention limit adjustment criteria listed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The default retention limits for the regions set forth under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section are:

(A) Zero swordfish per vessel per trip for the Florida Swordfish Management Area;

(B) Eighteen swordfish per vessel per trip for the Caribbean region;

(C) Eighteen swordfish per vessel per trip for the Northwest Atlantic region; and

(D) Eighteen swordfish per vessel per trip for the Gulf of Mexico region.

(5) NMFS will file with the Office of the Federal Register for publication notification of any inseason adjustments to the default swordfish retention limits specified at paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4)(iii) of this section. Before making any inseason adjustments to swordfish retention limits, NMFS will consider the following criteria and other relevant factors:

(i) The usefulness of information obtained from biological sampling and monitoring of the North Atlantic swordfish stock;

(ii) The estimated ability of vessels participating in the fishery to land the amount of swordfish quota available before the end of the fishing year;

(iii) The estimated amounts by which quotas for other categories of the fishery might be exceeded;

(iv) Effects of the adjustment on accomplishing the objectives of the fishery management plan and its amendments;

(v) Variations in seasonal distribution, abundance, or migration patterns of swordfish;

(vi) Effects of catch rates in one region precluding vessels in another region from having a reasonable opportunity to harvest a portion of the overall swordfish quota; and

(vii) Review of dealer reports, landing trends, and the availability of swordfish on the fishing grounds.

(c) BAYS tunas. Persons aboard a vessel that has been issued an HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit under ยง 635.4 may retain, possess, land, or sell no more than 10 BAYS tunas per vessel per trip.
