
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart C - Management Measures
##### ยง 635.23 Retention limits for bluefin tuna.
###### Harpoon category.

(d)(1) Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category may retain, possess, or land no more than 10 large medium and giant BFT, combined, per vessel per day. The incidental catch of large medium BFT is limited as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. NMFS may increase or decrease the overall daily retention limit of large medium and giant BFT, combined, per vessel per day over a range of 5 to a maximum of 10 fish per vessel per day. Such increase or decrease will be based upon the criteria under ยง 635.27(a)(7). NMFS will adjust the daily retention limit by filing an adjustment with the Office of the Federal Register for publication.

(2) Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category may retain, possess, or land an incidental catch of no more than two large medium BFT per vessel per day, unless adjusted. NMFS may increase or decrease the incidental daily catch limit through an inseason adjustment over a range of two to a maximum of four, large medium BFT per vessel per day, based upon the criteria under ยง 635.27(a)(7).

(3) Regardless of the length of a trip, no more than a single day's retention limit of large medium or giant BFT may be possessed or retained aboard a vessel that has an Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category permit.
