
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart C - Management Measures
##### ยง 635.27 Quotas.
###### General category quota.

(1)(i) Catches from vessels for which Atlantic Tunas General category permits have been issued and certain catches from vessels for which an HMS Charter/Headboat permit has been issued are counted against the General category quota in accordance with ยง 635.23(c)(3). Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the amount of large medium and giant BFT that may be caught, retained, possessed, landed, or sold under the General category quota is 710.7 mt, and is apportioned as follows, unless modified as described under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section:

(A) January 1 through March 31-5.3 percent;

(B) June 1 through August 31-50 percent;

(C) September 1 through September 30-26.5 percent;

(D) October 1 through November 30-13 percent; and

(E) December 1 through December 31-5.2 percent.

(ii) NMFS may adjust each period's apportionment based on overharvest or underharvest in the prior period, and may transfer subquota from one time period to another time period, earlier in the year, through inseason action or annual specifications. For example, subquota could be transferred from the December 1 through December 31 time period to the January 1 through March 31 time period; or from the October 1 through November 30 time period to the September 1 through September 30 time period. This inseason adjustment may occur prior to the start of that year. In other words, although subject to the inseason criteria under paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the adjustment could occur prior to the start of the fishing year. For example, an inseason action transferring the 2016 December 1 through December 31 time period subquota to the 2016 January 1 through March 31 time period subquota could be filed in 2015.

(iii) When the General category fishery has been closed in any quota period specified under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, NMFS will publish a closure action as specified in ยง 635.28. The subsequent time-period subquota will automatically open in accordance with the dates specified under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
