
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart C - Management Measures
##### ยง 635.27 Quotas.
###### Angling category quota.

(2)In accordance with the framework procedures as described under ยง 635.34, prior to each fishing year, or as early as feasible, NMFS will establish the Angling category daily retention limits. In accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the total amount of BFT that may be caught, retained, possessed, and landed by anglers aboard vessels for which an HMS Angling permit or an HMS Charter/Headboat permit has been issued is 297.4 mt. No more than 3.1 percent of the annual Angling category quota may be large medium or giant BFT. In addition, no more than 10 percent of the baseline annual U.S. BFT quota, inclusive of the allocation specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, may be school BFT. The Angling category quota includes the amount of school BFT held in reserve under paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. The size class subquotas for BFT are further subdivided as follows:

(i) After adjustment for the school BFT quota held in reserve (under paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section), 52.8 percent of the school BFT Angling category quota may be caught, retained, possessed, or landed south of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat. The remaining school BFT Angling category quota may be caught, retained, possessed or landed north of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat.

(ii) After adjustment (Angling category quota minus school and large medium/giant subquotas), resulting in a large school/small medium subquota of 154.1 mt, an amount equal to 52.8 percent may be caught, retained, possessed, or landed south of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat. The remaining large school/small medium BFT Angling category quota may be caught, retained, possessed, or landed north of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat.

(iii) One fourth of the large medium and giant BFT Angling category quota may be caught retained, possessed, or landed, in each of the four following geographic areas: North of 42&#xB0; N. lat.; south of 42&#xB0; N. lat. and north of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat.; south of 39&#xB0;18&#x2032; N. lat., and outside of the Gulf of Mexico; and in the Gulf of Mexico region. For the purposes of this section, the Gulf of Mexico region includes all waters of the U.S. EEZ west and north of the boundary stipulated at ยง 600.105(c) of this chapter.
