
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 635 - ATLANTIC HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
#### Subpart F - Enforcement
##### § 635.71 Prohibitions.
###### Swordfish.

(e)It is unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to:

(1) Purchase, barter for, or trade for a swordfish from the north or south Atlantic swordfish stock without a dealer permit as specified in § 635.4(g), unless the harvesting vessel possesses a valid HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit issued under § 635.4 of this part and harvested the swordfish in the U.S. Caribbean as defined at § 622.2.

(2) Fail to comply with the restrictions on use of a pelagic longline specified in § 635.21(b) and (c).

(3) When the directed fishery for swordfish is closed, exceed the limits specified in § 635.28(c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii).

(4) When the incidental catch fishery for swordfish is closed, possess, land, sell, or purchase a swordfish, as specified in § 635.28(c)(2).

(5) Transfer a swordfish in port or at sea, as specified in § 635.29(a).

(6) Fail to maintain a swordfish in the form specified in § 635.30(d).

(7) Fail to comply with the restrictions on sale and purchase of a swordfish, as specified in § 635.31(d).

(8) Fish for North Atlantic swordfish from, possess North Atlantic swordfish on board, or land North Atlantic swordfish from a vessel using or having on board gear other than pelagic longline, green-stick gear, or handgear, except as specified at § 635.19(e).

(9) Fish for swordfish from the South Atlantic swordfish stock using gear other than pelagic longline, as specified at § 635.19(e)(1) and § 635.27(c)(1)(ii).

(10) Fish for, catch, possess, retain, or land an Atlantic swordfish using, or captured on, "buoy gear" as defined at § 635.2, unless, as specified in § 635.19(e)(3), the vessel owner has been issued a swordfish directed LAP or a swordfish handgear LAP in accordance with § 635.4(f) or a valid HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit in accordance with § 635.4(o).

(11) Possess or deploy more than 35 individual floatation devices, to deploy more than 35 individual buoy gears per vessel, or to deploy buoy gear without affixed monitoring equipment, as specified at § 635.21(g).

(12) Fail to mark each buoy gear as required at § 635.6(c)(1).

(13) Exceed the incidental catch retention limits specified at § 635.24(b).

(14) Exceed the recreational catch limit for North Atlantic swordfish, as specified in § 635.22(f).

(15) As the owner of a vessel permitted, or required to be permitted, in the Atlantic HMS Angling or the Atlantic HMS Charter/Headboat category (and only when on a for-hire trip), fail to report a North Atlantic swordfish, as specified in § 635.5(c)(2) or (c)(3).

(16) Possess any HMS, other than Atlantic swordfish, harvested with buoy gear as specified at § 635.19 unless issued a valid HMS Commercial Caribbean Small Boat permit and operating within the U.S. Caribbean as defined at § 622.2 of this chapter.

(17) Fail to construct, deploy, or retrieve buoy gear as specified at § 635.21(g).

(18) As the owner of a vessel permitted, or required to be permitted, in the Swordfish General Commercial permit category, possess North Atlantic swordfish taken from its management unit by any gear other than rod and reel, handline, bandit gear, green-stick, or harpoon gear, as specified in § 635.19(e).
