
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 648.7 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
###### Atlantic mackerel owners or operators.

(ii)The owner or operator of a vessel issued a limited access Atlantic mackerel permit must report catch (retained and discarded) of Atlantic mackerel daily via VMS, unless exempted by the Regional Administrator. The report must include at least the following information, and any other information required by the Regional Administrator: Fishing Vessel Trip Report serial number; month, day, and year Atlantic mackerel was caught; total pounds of Atlantic mackerel retained and total pounds of all fish retained. Daily Atlantic mackerel VMS catch reports must be submitted in 24-hr intervals for each day and must be submitted by 0900 hr on the following day. Reports are required even if Atlantic mackerel caught that day have not yet been landed. This report does not exempt the owner or operator from other applicable reporting requirements of this section.

(iii) Surfclam and Ocean Quahog owners or operators. The owner or operator of any vessel conducting any surfclam and ocean quahog fishing operations must provide at least the following information and any other information required by the Regional Administrator:

(A) Name and permit number of the vessel;

(B) Total amount in bushels of each species taken;

(C) Date(s) caught;

(D) Time at sea;

(E) Duration of fishing time;

(F) Locality fished;

(G) Crew size;

(H) Crew share by percentage;

(I) Landing port;

(J) Date sold;

(K) Price per bushel;

(L) Buyer;

(M) Tag numbers from cages used;

(N) Quantity of surfclams and ocean quahogs discarded; and

(O) Allocation permit number.

(iv) Private tilefish recreational vessel owners and operators. The owner or operator of any fishing vessel that holds a Federal private recreational tilefish permit, must report for each recreational trip fishing for or retaining blueline or golden tilefish in the Tilefish Management Unit. The required Vessel Trip Report must be submitted by electronic means. This report must be submitted through a NMFS-approved electronic reporting system within 24 hours of the trip returning to port. The vessel operator may keep paper records while onboard and upload the data after landing. The report must contain the following information:

(A) Vessel name;

(B) USCG documentation number (or state registration number, if undocumented);

(C) Permit number;

(D) Date/time sailed;

(E) Date/time landed;

(F) Trip type;

(G) Number of anglers;

(H) Species;

(I) Gear fished;

(J) Quantity and size of gear;

(K) Soak time;

(L) Depth;

(M) Chart Area;

(N) Latitude/longitude where fishing occurred;

(O) Count of individual golden and blueline tilefish landed or discarded; and

(P) Port and state landed.
