
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 648.10 VMS and DAS requirements for vessel owners/operators.
###### Scallop Pre-Landing Notification Form for limited access vessels on a declared DAS trip landing scallops at ports located at or south of 39&#xB0; N. lat.

(iv)In order to end a declared Sea Scallop DAS trip and steam south of 39&#xB0; N. lat., a limited access vessel must first report through VMS, using the Scallop Pre-Landing Notification Form, the amount of any scallops kept on its DAS trip. Upon crossing shoreward of the VMS Demarcation Line at or south of 39&#xB0; N. lat., the Scallop Pre-Landing Notification form must be submitted. The report must include the vessel operator's permit number, the amount of scallop meats in pounds to be landed, the estimated time of arrival in port, the landing port and state where the scallops will be offloaded, and the VTR serial number recorded from that trip's VTR (the same VTR serial number as reported to the dealer). Prior to crossing seaward of the VMS Demarcation Line for the transit to a southern port at or south of 39&#xB0; N. lat., the vessel must declare out of the scallop fishery. A limited access scallop vessel may provide a corrected report. If the report is being submitted as a correction of a prior report, the information entered into the notification form will replace the data previously submitted in the prior report. Submitting a correction does not prevent NMFS from pursuing an enforcement action for any false reporting.
