
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 648.11 Monitoring coverage.
###### At-sea monitoring coverage target.

(i)The at-sea monitoring coverage target for the sector monitoring program will be set as a percentage of all eligible sector trips based on available Federal funding for NMFS and industry cost responsibilities as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Sectors are responsible for industry costs for at-sea monitoring coverage up to the coverage target for all trips not observed by a Northeast Fishery Observer Program observer. In fishing years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025, the at-sea monitoring (ASM) coverage target will be set at the highest level that available Federal funding for NMFS and industry cost responsibilities supports, up to 100 percent of trips. Beginning in fishing year 2026, the target coverage will be set at 40 percent of trips, unless replaced by the New England Fishery Management Council after a review, as detailed in paragraph (l)(5)(v) of this section. In the absence of available Federal funds sufficient to fund both NMFS costs and industry costs associated with a coverage target of at least 40 percent of all sector trips, sectors must pay the industry's costs for coverage necessary to achieve a 40-percent coverage target. As an example, if, after paying NMFS costs, available Federal funding is sufficient only to fund industry costs for 15-percent coverage, sectors must pay the industry costs for the remaining 25-percent coverage to achieve a 40-percent coverage target. Any coverage provided by the Northeast Fisheries Observer Program through deployment of an observer would be deducted from the industry's cost responsibility. To ensure coverage is both sufficient to monitor sector catch, discards, and sector ACE; and consistent with sector monitoring goals and objectives, at-sea monitoring coverage may be higher than the at-sea monitoring coverage target, up to 100 percent of all eligible trips, if available Federal funding is sufficient for NMFS and industry cost responsibilities, respectively. NMFS will announce the coverage target at least 3 weeks before the annual sector enrollment deadline set by NMFS, if Federal funding information is available. NMFS will determine, and announce, EM video review rates separately from the ASM coverage target. NMFS may evaluate and modify video review rates on a regular basis.
