
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 648.14 Prohibitions.
###### Illex,Illex

(B) Possess more than the incidental catch allowance ofsquid, unless issued ansquid moratorium permit.

(C) Possess more than the incidental catch allowance of Atlantic mackerel, unless issued a limited access Atlantic mackerel permit.

(D) Take and retain, possess, or land Atlantic chub mackerel, Atlantic mackerel, squid, or butterfish in excess of a possession limit specified in ยง 648.26.

(E) Possess more than 5,000 lb (2.27 mt) of butterfish, unless the vessel meets the minimum mesh requirements specified in ยง 648.23(a).

(F) Take and retain, possess, or land more than 5,000 lb (2.27 mt) of Atlantic mackerel after a closure of the entire commercial fishery, as specified under ยง 648.24(b)(1).

(G) Fish for, possess, transfer, receive, or sell; or attempt to fish for, possess, transfer, receive, or sell; more than 20,000 lb (9.08 mt) of Atlantic mackerel per trip; or land, or attempt to land more than 20,000 lb (9.08 mt) of Atlantic mackerel per day after 95 percent of the river herring and shad cap has been harvested, if the vessel holds a valid Atlantic mackerel permit.

(H) Possess more than the incidental catch allowance of butterfish, unless issued a butterfish moratorium permit.
