
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 648.14 Prohibitions.
###### DAS Leasing Program.

(ii)(A) Provide false information on an application, required by § 648.82(k)(4)(xi), to downgrade the DAS Leasing Program baseline.

(B) Lease NE multispecies DAS or use leased DAS that have not been approved for leasing by the Regional Administrator as specified in § 648.82(k).

(C) Provide false information on, or in connection with, an application, required under § 648.82(k)(3), to effectuate the leasing of NE multispecies DAS.

(D) Act as lessor or lessee of a NE multispecies Category B DAS, or Category C DAS.

(E) Act as lessor or lessee of NE multispecies DAS, if the lessor's or the lessee's vessels do not comply with the size restrictions specified in § 648.82(k)(4)(ix).

(F) Sub-lease NE multispecies DAS.

(G) [Reserved]

(H) Lease NE multispecies DAS to a vessel that does not have a valid limited access multispecies permit.

(I) [Reserved]

(J) Lease NE multispecies DAS if the number of unused allocated DAS is less than the number of DAS requested to be leased.

(K) Lease NE multispecies DAS in excess of the duration specified in § 648.82(k)(4)(viii).

(L) Combine, transfer, or consolidate DAS allocations, except as provided for under the DAS Leasing Program or the DAS Transfer Program, as specified under § 648.82(k) and (l), respectively.

(M) Lease NE multispecies DAS to or from a common pool vessel if either the Lessor or the Lessee vessel is a sector vessel.

(N) Act as a lessor or lessee of NE multispecies DAS to or from a limited access permit that has been rendered unusable as specified in § 648.4(a)(1)(i)(N).
