
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 648.14 Prohibitions.
###### Sector requirements.

(14)It is unlawful for any person, including any owner or operator of a vessel issued a valid Federal NE multispecies permit and fishing on a sector trip to do any of the following:

(i) Fail to abide by the restrictions specified in § 648.87(b)(1).

(ii) Catch regulated species or ocean pout in excess of ACE allocated or transferred to that sector pursuant to § 648.87(b)(1)(i) and (viii), respectively.

(iii) Fish in a particular stock area, the Eastern U.S./Canada Area, or a SAP if the sector has not been allocated, does not acquire, or otherwise has insufficient ACE remaining/available for all stocks caught in that area, or fail to operate in a manner that would not catch stocks for which the sector has not been allocated ACE, as described in an approved sector operations plan pursuant to § 648.87(b)(2)(xiv), as prohibited in § 648.87(b)(1)(ii).

(iv) Violate the provisions of an approved sector operations plan or letter of authorization issued by the Regional Administrator, as required by § 648.87(b)(1)(iv) and (b)(2).

(v) Fail to remain in the sector for the remainder of the fishing year, as required by § 648.87(b)(1).

(vi) Unless otherwise required to use a NE multispecies DAS to participate in another fishery, fish in the NE multispecies DAS program in a given fishing year or, for common pool vessels, fish in an approved sector in a given fishing year.

(vii) If a vessel is removed from a sector for violating the Sector rules, fish under the NE multispecies regulations for common pool vessels.

(viii) Discard legal-sized regulated species or ocean pout allocated to sectors pursuant to § 648.87(b)(1)(i), as prohibited by § 648.87(b)(1)(v).

(ix) Fail to comply with the reporting requirements specified in §§ 648.11(l)(10)(iii) and 648.87(b)(1)(v).

(x) Leave port to begin a trip before an at-sea monitor has arrived and boarded the vessel if assigned to carry an at-sea monitor for that trip, or without an operational electronic monitoring system installed on board, as specified in § 648.11(l)(3) and (l)(10)(i).

(xi) Leave port to begin a trip if a vessel has failed a review of safety issues by an at-sea monitor and has not successfully resolved any identified safety deficiencies, as prohibited by § 648.11(l)(10)(i)(C).

(xii) Fail to comply with the electronic monitoring system requirements as specified in § 648.11(l)(10)(i)(A), including, but not limited to: ensuring the electronic monitoring system is fully operational; conducting a system check of the electronic monitoring system; ensuring camera views are unobstructed and clear; and ensuring that no person tampers with the electronic monitoring system.

(xiii) Fail to comply with the vessel monitoring plan requirements as specified in § 648.11(l)(10)(i)(B), including, but not limited to: carrying the vessel monitoring plan onboard the vessel at all times; complying with all catch handling protocols and other requirements in the vessel monitoring plan; submitting electronic monitoring data as required; and making the electronic monitoring system available to NMFS for inspection upon request.

(xiv) Offload fish without a dockside monitor present or without a waiver issued by NMFS when participating in the maximized retention electronic monitoring program.

(xv) Resist, oppose, impede, harass, intimidate, or interfere with or bar by command, impediment, threat, or coercion any dockside monitor conducting his or her duty to inspect a fish hold after offload.

(xvi) Fish under a waiver from the groundfish sector monitoring program issued under § 648.11(l)(5)(ii) or (iii) without complying with the requirements of § 648.11(l)(5)(ii) or (iii), respectively; the VMS declaration requirements at § 648.10; and the pre-trip notification requirements at § 648.11(l)(1).
