
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart B - Management Measures for the Mackerel, Squid, and Butterfish Fisheries
##### ยง 648.24 Fishery closures and accountability measures.
###### Atlantic Mackerel AMs,Atlantic mackerel commercial sector EEZ closure,First phase commercial closure.

(b)-(1)-(i)(A) Unless otherwise determined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, NMFS will close the commercial Atlantic mackerel fishery, which includes vessels issued an open access or limited access Atlantic mackerel permit, including a limited access Tier 3 Atlantic mackerel permit, in the EEZ when the Regional Administrator projects before May 1 that 886 mt of the Atlantic mackerel DAH is remaining. The closure of the commercial fishery shall be in effect for the remainder of that fishing year, with incidental catches allowed, as specified in ยง 648.26.

(B) Unless otherwise determined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, NMFS will close the commercial Atlantic mackerel fishery, which includes vessels issued an open access or limited access Atlantic mackerel permit, including a limited access Tier 3 Atlantic mackerel permit, in the EEZ when the Regional Administrator projects on or after May 1 that 443 mt of the Atlantic mackerel DAH is remaining. The closure of the commercial fishery shall be in effect for the remainder of that fishing year, with incidental catches allowed, as specified in ยง 648.26.

(C) Unless previously closed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) or (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, NMFS will close the Tier 3 commercial Atlantic mackerel fishery in the EEZ when the Regional Administrator projects that 90 percent of the Tier 3 Atlantic mackerel landings cap will be harvested. Unless otherwise restricted, the closure of the Tier 3 commercial Atlantic mackerel fishery will be in effect for the remainder of that fishing period, with incidental catches allowed as specified in ยง 648.26.
