
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart F - Management Measures for the NE Multispecies and Monkfish Fisheries
##### ยง 648.80 NE Multispecies regulated mesh areas and restrictions on gear and methods of fishing.
###### Hook gear restrictions.

(v)Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph (a)(3)(v) or ยง 648.87(c), vessels fishing with a valid NE multispecies limited access permit and fishing under a NE multispecies DAS or on a sector trip, and vessels fishing with a valid NE multispecies limited access Small-Vessel permit in the GOM Regulated Mesh Area, and persons on such vessels, are prohibited from fishing, setting, or hauling back, per day, or possessing on board the vessel, more than 2,000 rigged hooks. All longline gear hooks must be circle hooks, of a minimum size of 12/0. An unbaited hook and gangion that has not been secured to the ground line of the trawl on board a vessel during the fishing trip is deemed to be a replacement hook and is not counted toward the 2,000-hook limit. A "snap-on" hook is deemed to be a replacement hook if it is not rigged or baited during the fishing trip. The use of de-hookers ("crucifer") with less than 6-inch (15.2-cm) spacing between the fairlead rollers is prohibited. Vessels fishing with a valid NE multispecies limited access Hook Gear permit and fishing under a multispecies DAS or on a sector trip in the GOM Regulated Mesh Area, and persons on such vessels, are prohibited from possessing gear other than hook gear on board the vessel. Vessels fishing with a valid NE multispecies limited access Handgear A permit, and persons on such vessels, are prohibited from fishing, or possessing on board the vessel, gear other than handgear. Vessels fishing with tub-trawl gear are prohibited from fishing, setting, or hauling back, per day, or possessing on board the vessel more than 250 hooks.
