
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart F - Management Measures for the NE Multispecies and Monkfish Fisheries
##### ยง 648.87 Sector allocation.
###### Approved sector allocation proposals.

(d)Eligible NE multispecies vessels, as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, may participate in the sectors identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (26) of this section, provided the operations plan is approved by the Regional Administrator in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and each participating vessel and vessel operator and/or vessel owner complies with the requirements of the operations plan, the requirements and conditions specified in the letter of authorization issued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and all other requirements specified in this section. All operational aspects of these sectors shall be specified pursuant to the operations plan and sector contract, as required by this section.

(1) GB Cod Hook Sector.

(2) GB Cod Fixed Gear Sector.

(3) Mooncusser Sector.

(4) Sustainable Harvest Sector.

(5) Sustainable Harvest Sector II.

(6) Sustainable Harvest Sector III.

(7) Port Clyde Community Groundfish Sector.

(8) Northeast Fishery Sector I.

(9) Northeast Fishery Sector II.

(10) Northeast Fishery Sector III.

(11) Northeast Fishery Sector IV.

(12) Northeast Fishery Sector V.

(13) Northeast Fishery Sector VI.

(14) Northeast Fishery Sector VII.

(15) Northeast Fishery Sector VIII.

(16) Northeast Fishery Sector IX.

(17) Northeast Fishery Sector X.

(18) Northeast Fishery Sector XI.

(19) Northeast Fishery Sector XII.

(20) Northeast Fishery Sector XIII.

(21) Tristate Sector.

(22) Northeast Coastal Communities Sector.

(23) State of Maine Permit Banking Sector.

(24) State of Rhode Island Permit Bank Sector.

(25) State of New Hampshire Permit Bank Sector.

(26) State of Massachusetts Permit Bank Sector.
