
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart G - Management Measures for the Summer Flounder Fisheries
##### ยง 648.108 Summer flounder gear restrictions.
###### General.

(a)(1) Otter trawlers whose owners are issued a summer flounder permit and that land or possess 100 lb (45.4 kg) or more of summer flounder from May 1 through October 31, or 200 lb (90.7 kg) or more of summer flounder from November 1 through April 30, per trip, must fish with nets that have a minimum mesh size of 5.5-inch (14.0-cm) diamond or 6.0-inch (15.2-cm) square mesh applied throughout the body, extension(s), and codend portion of the net, except as required in a TED extension, in accordance with ยง 223.206(d)(2)(iii) of this title.

(2) Mesh size is measured by using an electronic Omega gauge or a wedge-shaped gauge. The Omega gauge has a measuring range of at least 10-300 mm (0.4 inches-11.81 inches), and shall be inserted into the meshes under a pressure or pull of 125 N or 12.75 kg for mesh greater than or equal to 55 mm (2.17 inches) and under a pressure or pull of 50 N or 5.10 kg for mesh less than 55 mm (2.17 inches). The wedge shaped gauge, with a taper of 2 cm (0.79 inches) in 8 cm (3.15 inches), and a thickness of 2.3 mm (0.09 inches), shall be inserted into the meshes under a pressure or pull of 5 kg (11.02 lb) for mesh size less than 120 mm (4.72 inches) and under a pressure or pull of 8 kg (17.64 lb) for mesh size at, or greater than, 120 mm (4.72 inches). The mesh size is the average of the measurements of any series of 20 consecutive meshes for nets having 75 or more meshes, and 10 consecutive meshes for nets having fewer than 75 meshes, when using either the Omega gauge or the wedge-shaped gauge. The mesh in the regulated portion of the net is measured at least five meshes away from the lacings, running parallel to the long axis of the net.
