
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart K - Management Measures for the Atlantic Herring Fishery
##### ยง 648.201 AMs and harvest controls.
###### ACL and sub-ACL overage deductions.

(3)(i) If NMFS determines that total catch exceeded an Atlantic herring sub-ACL by 10 percent or less and the ACL was not exceeded in a given fishing year, then NMFS shall not deduct any amount of the overage from the applicable sub-ACL or ACL in the fishing year following total catch determination.

(ii) If NMFS determines that total catch exceeded an Atlantic herring sub-ACL by greater than 10 percent and the ACL was not exceeded in a given fishing year, then NMFS shall subtract the amount of the overage above 10 percent from the ACL and applicable sub-ACL in the fishing year following total catch determination. For example, if catch exceeded the Area 1A sub-ACL by 15 percent in Year 1 and the ACL was not exceeded, the amount equal to the 5 percent overage would be deducted from the ACL and Area 1A sub-ACL in Year 3.

(iii) If NMFS determines that total catch exceeded an Atlantic herring sub-ACL by any amount and the ACL was also exceeded in a given fishing year, then NMFS shall subtract the full amount of the sub-ACL overage from the applicable sub-ACL, and the full amount of the ACL overage from the ACL, in the fishing year following total catch determination. For example, if catch exceeded the Area 1A sub-ACL by 15 percent and the ACL by 5 percent in Year 1, the amount equal to the 15-percent overage would be deducted from the Area 1A sub-ACL and the amount equal to the 5-percent overage would be deducted from the ACL in Year 3.

(iv) If NMFS determines that total catch exceeded the Atlantic herring ACL and no herring sub-ACLs were exceeded in a given fishing year, then NMFS shall subtract the full amount of the overage from the ACL in the fishing year following total catch determination. For example, if catch exceeded the herring ACL by 2 percent in Year 1, the amount equal to the 2-percent overage would be deducted from the ACL in Year 3, and no sub-ACLs would be reduced.

(v) NMFS shall make overage determinations and implement any changes to ACLs or sub-ACLs, through notification in theand if possible, prior to the start of the fishing year during which the reduction would occur.
