
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 648 - FISHERIES OF THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES
#### Subpart N - Management Measures for the Golden Tilefish and Blueline Tilefish Fisheries
##### ยง 648.292 Tilefish specifications.
###### Annual specification process.

(2)The Tilefish Committee of the MAFMC shall review the recommendations of the Tilefish Monitoring Committee. Based on these recommendations and any public comment received, the Tilefish Committee shall recommend to the MAFMC the appropriate ACL, ACT, TAL, and other management measures for the blueline tilefish commercial and recreational sectors for a single fishing year or up to three years. The MAFMC shall review these recommendations and any public comments received, and recommend to the Regional Administrator, at least 120 days prior to the beginning of the next fishing year, the appropriate blueline tilefish ACLs, ACTs, TALs, the percentage of TAL allocated to research quota, and any management measures to ensure that the sector ACLs will not be exceeded, for the next fishing year, or up to three fishing years. The MAFMC's recommendations must include supporting documentation, as appropriate, concerning the environmental and economic impacts of the recommendations. The Regional Administrator shall review these recommendations, and after such review, NMFS will publish a proposed rule in thespecifying the annual blueline tilefish ACL, ACT, TAL and any management measures for the blueline tilefish commercial and recreational sectors to ensure that the sector ACLs will not be exceeded for the upcoming fishing year or years. After considering public comments, NMFS will publish a final rule in theto implement the blueline tilefish commercial and recreational ACLs, ACTs, TALs and any management measures. The previous year's specifications will remain effective unless revised through the specification process and/or the research quota process described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. NMFS will issue notification in theif the previous year's specifications will not be changed.
