
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart C - West Coast Groundfish Fisheries
##### ยง 660.12 General groundfish prohibitions.
###### Groundfish catch monitor program.

(f)(1) Forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, harass, sexually harass, bribe, or interfere with a catch monitor.

(2) Interfere with or bias the monitoring procedure employed by a catch monitor, including either mechanically or manually sorting or discarding catch before it's monitored.

(3) Tamper with, destroy, or discard a catch monitor's collected samples, equipment, records, photographic film, papers, or personal effects.

(4) Harass a catch monitor by conduct that:

(i) Has sexual connotations,

(ii) Has the purpose or effect of interfering with the catch monitor's work performance, and/or

(iii) Otherwise creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment. In determining whether conduct constitutes harassment, the totality of the circumstances, including the nature of the conduct and the context in which it occurred, will be considered. The determination of the legality of a particular action will be made from the facts on a case-by-case basis.

(5) Receive, purchase, or take custody, control, or possession of a delivery without catch monitor coverage when such coverage is required under ยง 660.140(i).

(6) Fail to allow the catch monitor unobstructed access to catch sorting, processing, catch counting, catch weighing, or electronic or paper fish tickets.

(7) Fail to provide reasonable assistance to the catch monitor.

(8) Require, pressure, coerce, or threaten a catch monitor to perform duties normally performed by employees of the first receiver, including, but not limited to duties associated with the receiving of landing, processing of fish, sorting of catch, or the storage of the finished product.

(9) Fail to meet the catch monitor provider responsibilities specified at ยง 660.17(e).
