
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart C - West Coast Groundfish Fisheries
##### § 660.18 Observer and catch monitor provider permits and endorsements.
###### Contents of provider application.

(2)A complete application for a provider permit shall contain the following:

(i) An indication of which endorsement the applicant is seeking: observer provider, catch monitor provider, or both endorsements. A single application may be used to apply for both endorsements.

(ii) Applicant contact information.

(A) Legal name of applicant organization. If the applicant organization is United States business entity, include the state registration number.

(B) The primary business mailing address, phone and fax numbers where the owner(s) can be contacted for official correspondence.

(iii) Description of the management, organizational structure, and ownership structure of the applicant's business, including identification by name and general function of all controlling management interests in the company, including but not limited to owners, board members, officers, authorized agents, and employees. List all office locations and their business mailing address, business phone, fax number, and email addresses. If the applicant is a corporation, the articles of incorporation must be provided. If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership agreement must be provided.

(iv) A narrative statement describing relevant direct or indirect prior experience or qualifications the applicant may have that would enable them to be a successful provider.

(A) For applicants seeking an observer provider endorsement, the applicant should describe experience in placing individuals in remote field and/or marine work environments. This includes, but is not limited to, recruiting, hiring, deployment, and personnel administration.

(B) For applicants seeking a catch monitor provider endorsement, a narrative statement should identify prior relevant experience in recruiting, hiring, deploying, and providing support for individuals in marine work environments in the groundfish fishery or other fisheries of similar scale.

(v) A narrative description of the applicant's ability to carry out the required responsibilities and duties as described at §§ 660.140(h), 660.150(j), and 660.160(g) for observer providers and/or § 660.17(f) for catch monitor providers.

(vi) A statement signed under penalty of perjury by an authorized agent of the applicant about each owner, or owners, board members, and officers if a corporation, authorized agents, and employees, regarding:

(A) Conflict of interest as described in § 660.18 (c)(3),

(B) Criminal convictions,

(C) Federal contracts they have had and the performance rating they received on the contract, and

(D) Previous decertification action while working as an observer, catch monitor, observer provider, or catch monitor provider.

(vii) NMFS may request additional information or clarification from the applicants.
