
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart C - West Coast Groundfish Fisheries
##### § 660.55 Allocations.
###### Fishery harvest guidelines and reductions made prior to fishery allocations.

(b)Prior to the setting of fishery allocations, the TAC, ACL, or ACT when specified, is reduced by the Pacific Coast treaty Indian Tribal harvest (allocations, set-asides, and estimated harvest under regulations at § 660.50); projected scientific research catch of all groundfish species, estimates of fishing mortality in non-groundfish fisheries; and, as necessary, deductions to account for unforeseen catch events and deductions for EFPs. Deductions are listed in the footnotes of Tables 1a and 2a of subpart C of this part. The remaining amount after these deductions is the fishery harvest guideline or quota. (Note: recreational estimates are not deducted here.)

(1) Pacific Coast treaty Indian tribal allocations, set-asides, and regulations are specified during the biennial harvest specifications process and are found at § 660.50 and in Tables 1a and 2a of this subpart.

(2) Scientific research catch results from scientific research activity as defined in regulations at § 600.10.

(3) Estimates of fishing mortality in non-groundfish fisheries are based on historical catch and projected fishing activities.

(4) EFPs are authorized and governed by regulations at §§ 660.60(f) and 600.745.
