
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart C - West Coast Groundfish Fisheries
##### ยง 660.55 Allocations.
###### Pacific halibut bycatch allocation.

(m)The Pacific halibut fishery off Washington, Oregon and California (Area 2A in the halibut regulations) is managed under regulations at 50 CFR part 300, subpart E. The PCGFMP sets the trawl bycatch mortality limit at 15 percent of the Area 2A total constant exploitation yield (TCEY) for legal size halibut (net weight), not to exceed 130,000 pounds annually for legal size halibut (net weight) for 2012 through 2014 and, beginning in 2015, not to exceed 100,000 pounds annually for legal size halibut (net weight). The TCEY used for these calculations will be the best estimate of the TCEY available from the International Pacific Halibut Commission at the time of the calculation. For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "legal sized" halibut refers to halibut with a total length of 32 inches and above, or O32, and the term "sublegal sized" halibut refers to halibut under 32 inches in total length, or U32. To determine the trawl bycatch mortality limit, the pounds of halibut available to the trawl fleet will be expanded from the legal sized halibut mortality (net weight) to a round weight legal and sublegal sized amount. To convert from net weight to round weight, multiply by the conversion factor used by the International Pacific Halibut Commission at the time of calculation for net weight to round weight. To convert from legal sized halibut to legal and sublegal sized halibut, multiply by the conversion factor from the NMFS trawl fishery bycatch report as reported to the International Pacific Halibut Commission at the time of calculation for legal sized to legal and sublegal sized halibut. The bycatch allocation percent can be adjusted downward or upward through the biennial specifications and management measures process but the upper bound on the maximum pounds of allocation can only be changed though an FMP amendment. Part of the overall total mortality limit is a set-aside of 10 mt of Pacific halibut (legal and sublegal, round weight), to accommodate bycatch in the at-sea Pacific whiting fishery and in the shorebased trawl fishery south of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N. lat. (estimated to be approximately 5 mt each). This set-aside can be adjusted through the biennial specifications and management measures process.
