
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart C - West Coast Groundfish Fisheries
##### § 660.60 Specifications and management measures.
###### Automatic actions.

(d)The NMFS Regional Administrator or designee will initiate automatic management actions without prior public notice, opportunity to comment, or a Council meeting. These actions are nondiscretionary, and the impacts must have been taken into account prior to the action. Unless otherwise stated, a single notice will be published in themaking the action effective if good cause exists under the APA to waive notice and comment.

(1) Automatic actions will be initiated in the following circumstances:

(i) Close the MS or C/P sector when that sector's Pacific whiting allocation is reached, or is projected to be reached. The MS sector non-coop fishery will be closed by automatic action when the Pacific whiting or non-whiting allocation to the non-coop fishery has been reached or is projected to be reached.

(ii) Close one or both MS and C/P sectors when a non-whiting groundfish species with allocations is reached or projected to be reached.

(iii) Reapportion the unused portion of the tribal allocation of Pacific whiting to the MS sector, C/P sector, and Shorebased IFQ sector.

(iv) Close the following groundfish fisheries, not including Pacific Coast treaty Indian fisheries, when conditions for Chinook salmon bycatch described in this table and paragraphs (d)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section are met:

(A) Consistent with § 660.60(i)(2), each component of the whiting sector (Pacific whiting IFQ fishery, MS Coop Program and C/P Coop Program) will be closed when Chinook salmon bycatch exceeds 11,000 Chinook salmon if a routine management measure specified at § 660.60(c) has not been implemented as described in § 660.60(i)(2) for that individual component of the whiting sector.

(B) Consistent with § 660.60(i)(2), the Chinook salmon closure at 11,000 fish does not apply to those whiting sector vessels that are parties to an approved Salmon Mitigation Plan, as specified at § 660.113(e), unless the non-whiting sector has caught the entire 3,500 Chinook salmon bycatch reserve.

(v) Close all groundfish fisheries, including Pacific Coast treaty Indian fisheries, if Chinook salmon bycatch in the groundfish fishery exceeds 20,000 fish.

(vi) Implement BRAs, described at § 660.131, when NMFS projects a sector-specific allocation will be reached before the sector's whiting allocation.
