
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### § 660.112 Trawl fishery - prohibitions.
###### IFQ first receivers.

(2)(i) Receive, purchase, or take custody, control, or possession of an IFQ landing from a vessel that harvested the catch while fishing under the Shorebased IFQ Program without a valid first receiver site license.

(ii) Fail to sort or dispose of catch received from an IFQ trip in accordance with the requirements of §§ 660.130(d) and 660.140(g)(3).

(iii) Process, sell, or discard any groundfish received from an IFQ landing that has not been weighed on a scale that is in compliance with requirements at § 660.15, subpart C.

(iv) Transport catch away from the point of landing before that catch has been sorted and weighed by federal groundfish species or species group, and recorded for submission on an electronic fish ticket. (If fish will be transported to a different location for processing, all sorting and weighing to federal groundfish species groups must occur before transporting the catch away from the point of landing).

(v) Receive an IFQ landing without coverage by a catch monitor when one is required by regulations, unless NMFS has granted a written waiver exempting the IFQ first receiver from the catch monitor coverage requirements. On a case-by-case basis, a temporary written waiver may be granted by the Assistant Regional Administrator or designee if he/she determines that the failure to obtain coverage of a catch monitor was due to circumstances beyond the control of the first receiver. The duration of the waiver will be determined on a case-by-case basis.

(vi) Receive an IFQ landing without a NMFS-accepted catch monitoring plan or not in accordance with their NMFS-accepted catch monitoring plan.

(vii) Mix catch from more than one IFQ landing prior to the catch being sorted and weighed.

(viii) Fail to comply with the IFQ first receiver responsibilities specified at § 660.140(b)(2).

(ix) Process, sell, or discard any groundfish received from an IFQ landing that has not been accounted for on an electronic fish ticket with the identification number for the vessel that delivered the fish.

(x) Fail to submit, or submit incomplete or inaccurate information on any report, application, or statement required under this part.
