
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### § 660.112 Trawl fishery - prohibitions.
###### Shorebased IFQ Program,General.

(b)-(1)(i) Own or control by any means whatsoever an amount of QS or IBQ that exceeds the Shorebased IFQ Program accumulation limits.

(ii) Fish in the Shorebased IFQ Program with a vessel that does not have a valid vessel account or that has a vessel account with a deficit (negative balance) for any species/species group.

(iii) Have any IFQ species/species group catch (landings and discards) from an IFQ trip not covered by QP for greater than 30 days from the date the deficit (negative balance) from that trip is documented, unless the deficit is within the limits of the carryover provision specified at § 660.140(e)(5), subpart D, in which case the vessel has 30 days after the QP for the following year are issued to eliminate the deficit.

(iv) Register the limited entry trawl endorsed permit to another vessel or sell the limited entry trawl endorsed permit to another owner if the vessel registered to the permit has a deficit (negative balance) in their vessel account, until the deficit is covered, regardless of the amount of the deficit.

(v) Use QP by vessels not registered to a limited entry trawl permit with a valid vessel account.

(vi) Use QP in an area or for species/species groups other than that for which it is designated.

(vii) For vessels fishing with multiple trawl gear types on a single trip, fail to keep catch from different trawl gears separate and land the catch separately by gear type.

(viii) Fish on a Pacific whiting IFQ trip with a gear other than midwater groundfish trawl gear.

(ix) Fish on a Pacific whiting IFQ trip without a valid declaration for limited entry midwater trawl, Pacific whiting shorebased IFQ.

(x) Use midwater groundfish trawl gear outside the Pacific whiting IFQ fishery primary season dates as specified at § 660.131(b).

(xi) Mix catch from different hauls before all sampling and monitoring requirements for the hauls have been met.

(xii) Process groundfish at-sea ("at-sea processing") by vessels in the Shorebased IFQ Program regardless of the type of gear used, with the following exceptions:

(A) A vessel that is 75-ft (23-m) or less LOA that harvests Pacific whiting and, in addition to heading and gutting, cuts the tail off and freezes the whiting, is not considered to be a C/P vessel nor is it considered to be processing fish, and

(B) A vessel that has a non-whiting at-sea processing exemption, described at § 660.25(b)(6)(ii) may process non-whiting groundfish at sea.

(xiii) Discard or attempt to discard IFQ species/species group at sea unless the observer has documented or estimated the discards.

(xiv) Begin a new fishing trip until all fish from an IFQ landing have been offloaded from the vessel, consistent with § 660.12(a)(11).

(xv) Fail to establish a new registered vessel account in the name of the current vessel owner, following a change in ownership of a vessel, prior to fishing in the Shorebased IFQ Program with that vessel.

(xvi) Land groundfish taken and retained during an IFQ trip, from the vessel that harvested the fish, to a first receiver that does not hold a valid first receiver site license for the physical location where the IFQ landing occurred.

(xvii) When declared into the limited entry groundfish non-trawl Shorebased IFQ fishery, retain fish caught with fixed gear in more than one IFQ management area, specified at § 660.140(c)(1), on the same trip.
