
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.113 Trawl fishery - recordkeeping and reporting.
###### Initial Administrative Determination (IAD).

(B)If, in NMFS' review of the proposed SMP or amendment, NMFS identifies deficiencies in the proposed SMP that would require disapproval of the proposed SMP or amendment, NMFS will notify the applicant in writing. The applicant will be provided one 30-day period to address, in writing, the deficiencies identified by NMFS. Additional information or a revised SMP received by NMFS after the expiration of the 30-day period specified by NMFS will not be considered for purposes of the review of the proposed SMP or amendment. NMFS will evaluate any additional information submitted by the applicant within the 30-day period. If the Assistant Regional Administrator determines the additional information addresses deficiencies in the proposed SMP or amendment, the Assistant Regional Administrator will approve the proposed SMP or amendment under paragraph (e)(5)(i) or (iii) of this section. However, if, after consideration of the original proposed SMP or amendment, any additional information, or a revised SMP submitted during the 30-day period, NMFS determines the proposed SMP or amendment does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(5)(i) or (iii) of this section, the Assistant Regional Administrator will issue an IAD to the applicant in writing providing the reasons for disapproving the proposed SMP or amendment.
