
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Participation requirements and responsibilities,IFQ vessels.

(b)-(1)(i) Vessels must be registered to a groundfish limited entry permit, endorsed for trawl gear with no C/P endorsement.

(ii) To start a fishing trip in the Shorebased IFQ Program, a vessel and its owner(s) (as described on the USCG documentation or state registration document) must be registered to the same vessel account established by NMFS with no deficit (negative balance) for any species/species group.

(iii) All IFQ species/species group catch (landings and discards) must be covered by QP or IBQ pounds. Any deficit (negative balance in a vessel account) must be cured within 30 calendar days from the date the deficit from that trip is documented in the vessel account, unless the deficit is within the limits of the carryover provision at paragraph (e)(5) of this section, in which case the vessel account owner must declare out of the Shorebased IFQ Program, and must eliminate the deficit prior to re-entry into the fishery in the current year, or within 30 days after the issuance of QP or IBQ pounds for the following year.

(iv) Any vessel with a deficit (negative balance) in its vessel account is prohibited from fishing that is within the scope of the Shorebased IFQ Program until sufficient QP or IBQ pounds are transferred into the vessel account to remove any deficit, regardless of the amount of the deficit.

(v) A vessel account may not have QP or IBQ pounds (used and unused combined) in excess of the QP Vessel Limit in any year, and for species covered by Unused QP Vessel Limit, may not have QP or IBQ pounds in excess of the Unused QP Vessel Limit at any time. These amounts are specified at paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(vi) Vessels must use either trawl gear as specified at ยง 660.130(b), or a legal non-trawl groundfish gear under the gear switching provisions as specified at ยง 660.140(k).

(vii) Vessels that are registered to MS/CV-endorsed permits may be used to fish in the Shorebased IFQ Program provided that the vessel is registered to a valid Shorebased IFQ Program vessel account.

(viii) In the same calendar year, a vessel registered to a trawl endorsed limited entry permit with no MS/CV or C/P endorsements may be used to fish in the Shorebased IFQ Program if the vessel has a valid vessel account, and to fish in the mothership sector for a permitted MS coop as authorized by the MS coop.

(ix) Vessels that are registered to C/P-endorsed permits may not be used to fish in the Shorebased IFQ Program.

(x) Fish sellers must pay cost recovery program fees, as specified at ยง 660.115.
