
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### § 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### IFQ first receivers.

(2)The IFQ first receiver must:

(i) Ensure that all catch removed from a vessel making an IFQ delivery is weighed on a scale or scales meeting the requirements described in § 660.15(c).

(ii) Ensure that all catch is landed, sorted, and weighed in accordance with a valid catch monitoring plan as described in § 660.140(f)(3)(iii).

(iii) Ensure that all catch is sorted, prior to first weighing, as specified at § 660.130(d) and consistent with § 660.140(j)(2)(viii).

(iv) Provide unrestricted access to all areas where fish are or may be sorted or weighed to catch monitors, NMFS staff, NMFS-authorized personnel, or authorized officers at any time when a delivery of IFQ species, or the processing of those species, is taking place.

(v) Ensure that each scale produces a complete and accurate printed record of the weight of all catch in a delivery, unless exempted in the NMFS-accepted catch monitoring plan.

(vi) Retain and make available to catch monitors, NMFS staff, NMFS-authorized personnel, or authorized officers, all printed output from any scale used to weigh catch, and any hand tally sheets, worksheets, or notes used to determine the total weight of any species.

(vii) Ensure that each delivery of IFQ catch is monitored by a catch monitor and that the catch monitor is on site the entire time the delivery is being weighed or sorted.

(viii) Ensure that sorting and weighing is completed prior to catch leaving the area that can be monitored from the observation area described paragraph (i) of this section.

(ix) Collect and remit to NMFS cost recovery program fees, as specified at § 660.115.
