
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### IFQ program allocations.

(3)Allocations for the Shorebased IFQ Program are determined for IFQ species as follows:

(i) For Pacific whiting, the Shorebased IFQ Program allocation is specified at ยง 660.55(i)(2), subpart C, 42 percent.

(ii) For Sablefish N. of 36&#xB0; N. lat., the Shorebased IFQ Program allocation is the limited entry trawl allocation specified at ยง 660.55(h), subpart C, minus any set-asides for the mothership and C/P sectors for that species.

(iii) For IFQ species listed in the trawl/non-trawl allocation table, specified at ยง 660.55(c), subpart C, allocations are determined by applying the trawl column percent to the fishery harvest guideline minus any set-asides for the mothership and C/P sectors for that species.

(iv) The remaining IFQ species (bocaccio, canary rockfish, cowcod, darkblotched rockfish, lingcod S of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N lat., minor shelf rockfish N of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N lat., minor shelf rockfish S of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N lat., and minor slope rockfish S of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N lat., POP, widow rockfish, and yelloweye rockfish) are allocated through the biennial specifications and management measures process minus any set-asides for the mothership and C/P sectors for that species.

(v) For Pacific halibut N. of 40&#xB0;10&#x2032; N. lat., the Shorebased IFQ Program allocation is specified at 660.55(m).

(vi) For each IFQ species, NMFS will determine annual sub-allocations to individual QS accounts by multiplying the percent of QS or IBQ registered to the account by the amount of each respective IFQ species allocated to the Shorebased IFQ Program for that year. For each IFQ species, NMFS will deposit QP or IBQ pounds in the respective QS account in the amount of each sub-allocation determined.
