
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Transfers of QS or IBQ or QP or IBQ pounds.,1,General.,i.e.

(B)()Transfers of QS or IBQ from one QS account to another QS account and transfers of QP or IBQ pounds from a QS account to a vessel account must be accomplished via the online QS account. During the year there may be situations where NMFS deems it necessary to prohibit transfers (, account reconciliation, system maintenance, or for emergency fishery management reasons). To make a transfer, a QS permit owner must initiate a transfer request by logging onto the online QS account. Following the instructions provided on the Web site, the QS permit owner must enter pertinent information regarding the transfer request including, but not limited to: IFQ species, amount of QS, IBQ, QP, or IBQ pounds to be transferred for each IFQ species; name and any other identifier of the eligible transferee (e.g., QS permit number, vessel account number); and the value of the transferred QS, IBQ, QP, or IBQ pounds for each IFQ species. The online system will verify whether all information has been entered and whether the transfer complies with ownership limits or vessel limits, as applicable. If the information is not accepted, an electronic message will record as much in the transferor's QS account explaining the reason(s). If the information is accepted, the online system will record the pending transfer in both the transferor's QS account and the transferee's QS account or vessel account. The transferee must approve the transfer by electronic signature in order for the transfer to be completed. If the transferee accepts the transfer, the online system will record the transfer and confirm the transaction in both the transferor's QS account and the transferee's QS account or vessel account through a transaction confirmation notice. Once the transferee accepts the transaction, the transaction is final and permanent.
