
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Control limit for aggregate nonwhiting QS holdings.

(B)To determine how much aggregate nonwhiting QS a person holds, NMFS will convert the person's QS to pounds. This conversion will always be conducted using the trawl allocations applied to the 2010 OYs, until such time as the Council recommends otherwise. Specifically, NMFS will multiply each person's QS for each species by the shoreside trawl allocation for that species. The person's pounds for all nonwhiting species will be summed and divided by the shoreside trawl allocation of all nonwhiting species to calculate the person's share of the aggregate nonwhiting trawl quota. To determine the shoreside trawl allocation for the purpose of determining compliance with the aggregate nonwhiting control limit, for species that have specific trawl allocation percentages in Amendment 21, NMFS will apply the Amendment 21 trawl allocation percentages to (set forth at ยง 660.55) the 2010 OYs, and where applicable, will deduct the preliminary set-asides for the at-sea sectors from Amendment 21. For species that do not have specific trawl allocation percentages in Amendment 21, NMFS will apply a percentage based on the Northwest Fishery Science Center final report on 2010 estimated total fishing mortality of groundfish by sector, or, if the final report for 2010 is not available, based on the most recent report available.

(C) The Shorebased IFQ Program accumulation limits are as follows:
