
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Eligibility criteria for QS permit and QS/IBQ.

(ii)Only the following persons are eligible to receive a QS permit or QS/IBQ:

(A) The owner of a valid trawl limited entry permit is eligible to receive a QS permit and its associated QS or IBQ amount. Any past landings history associated with the current limited entry trawl permit accrues to the current permit owner. NMFS will not recognize any person as the limited entry permit owner other than the person listed as limited entry permit owner in NMFS permit database. If a limited entry permit has history on state landing receipts and has been combined with a permit that has received or will receive a C/P endorsement, the trawl limited entry permit does not qualify for QS or IBQ.

(B) Shoreside processors that meet the recent participation requirement of having received deliveries of 1 mt or more of whiting from whiting trips in each of any two years from 1998 through 2004 are eligible for an initial issuance of whiting QS. NMFS will initially identify shoreside processors by reference to Pacific whiting shoreside first receivers recorded on fish tickets in the relevant PacFIN dataset on July 1, 2010, subject to correction as described in paragraph (d)(8)(iv)(G) of this section.
