
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Steps for QS and IBQ allocation formulas.

(iii)The QS and IBQ allocation formulas are applied in the following steps:

(A) First, for each limited entry trawl permit owner, NMFS will determine a preliminary QS allocation for non-whiting trips.

(B) Second, for each limited entry trawl permit owner, NMFS will determine a preliminary QS allocation for whiting trips.

(C) Third, for each limited entry trawl permit owner, NMFS will combine the amounts resulting from paragraphs (d)(8)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(D) Fourth, NMFS will reduce the results for limited entry trawl permit owners by 10 percent of non-whiting species as a set aside for Adaptive Management Program (AMP) and by 20 percent of whiting for the initial issuance of QS allocated to qualifying shoreside processors.

(E) Fifth, NMFS will determine the whiting QS allocation for qualifying shoreside processors from the 20 percent of whiting QS allocated to qualifying shoreside processors at initial issuance of QS.

(F) Sixth, for each limited entry trawl permit owner, NMFS will determine the Pacific halibut IBQ allocation.

(G) Seventh, for limited entry trawl permits transferred after November 8, 2008, or if transferred earlier, not registered with NMFS by November 30, 2008, for which NMFS determines the owners of such permits would exceed the accumulation limits specified at paragraph (d)(4) of this section based on the previous steps, NMFS will redistribute the excess QS or IBQ to other qualified QS permit owners within the accumulation limits.
