
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Reassignment of Pacific whiting landings history for shoreside processors.

(B)For shoreside processors, the landing history may be reassigned from the Pacific whiting shoreside first receive identified in the relevant PacFIN database to a shoreside processor that was in fact the first processor of the fish. In order for an applicant to request that landing history be reassigned, an authorized representative for the Pacific whiting shoreside first receiver identified on the state landing receipt must submit, by the application deadline date specified in paragraph (d)(8)(vii)(B) of this section for initial issuance of QS, a written request that the whiting landings history from the qualifying years be conveyed to a shoreside processor. The letter must be signed and dated by the authorized representative of the Pacific whiting shoreside first receiver named on the state landing receipt and signed and dated by the authorized representative of the shoreside processor to which the Pacific whiting landing history is requested to be reassigned. The letter must identify the dates of the landings history and the associated amounts that are requested to be reassigned, and include the legal name of the shoreside processor to which the Pacific whiting landing history is requested to be reassigned, their date of birth or tax identification number, business address, business phone number, fax number, and e-mail address. If any document exists that demonstrates that the shoreside processor to which the Pacific whiting landing history is requested to be reassigned was in fact the first processor of the fish, such documentation must be provided to NMFS. NMFS will review the information submitted and will make a determination as part of the IAD.
