
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Renewal, change of account ownership, and transfer of QP or IBQ pounds,Renewal.

(3)-(i)(A) Vessel accounts expire at the end of each calendar year, and must be renewed between October 1 and November 30 of each year in order to ensure the vessel account is active on January 1 of the following year. A complete vessel account renewal package must be received by SFD no later than November 30 to be accepted by NMFS.

(B) Notification to renew vessel accounts will be issued by SFD by September 15 each year to the vessel account owner's most recent address in the SFD record. The vessel account owner shall provide SFD with notice of any address change within 15 days of the change.

(C) Any vessel account for which SFD does not receive a vessel account renewal request by November 30 will have its vessel account inactivated by NMFS at the end of the calendar year. NMFS will not issue QP or IBQ pounds to the inactivated vessel account. Any QP or IBQ pounds in the vessel account will expire and surplus QP or IBQ pounds will not be available for carryover. A non-renewed vessel account may be renewed in a subsequent year by submission of a complete vessel account renewal package.

(D) Vessel accounts will not be renewed until SFD has received a complete application for a vessel account renewal, which includes payment of required fees, a complete documentation of permit ownership on the Trawl Identification of Ownership Interest Form as required under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, and a complete economic data collection form as required under ยง 660.114. The vessel account renewal will be considered incomplete until the required information is submitted.
