
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### § 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Pacific whiting IFQ trips.

(viii)Immediately following weighing of the total catch and prior to processing or transport away from the point of landing, the catch must be sorted to the species groups specified at § 660.130(d) and all catch other than the target species (groundfish and non groundfish species) must be accurately weighed and the weight of non-target species deducted from the total catch weight to derive the weight of a single predominant species. Catch from a Pacific whiting IFQ trip may be sorted after weighing and the weight of a single predominant species determined by deducting the weight of all other species from the total weight of the landing, provided that:

(A) The unsorted catch is weighed on a bulk weighing scale in compliance with equipment requirements at § 660.15(c);

(B) All catch (groundfish and non-groundfish species) in the landing other than the single predominant species is reweighed on a scale in compliance with equipment requirements at § 660.15(c) and the reweighed catch is deducted from the total weight of the landing;

(C) The catch is sorted to the species groups specified at § 660.130(d) prior to processing or transport away from the point of landing; and

(D) Prohibited species are sorted by species, counted, and weighed.

(ix) For all other IFQ landings the following weighing standards apply:

(A) A belt or automatic hopper scale may be used to weigh all of the catch prior to sorting. All but a single predominant species must then be reweighed.

(B) An in-line conveyor or automatic hopper scale may be used to weigh the single predominant species after catch has been sorted. Other species must be weighed in a manner that facilitates tracking of the weights of those species.

(C) IFQ species or species group may be weighed in totes on a platform scale capable of printing a label or tag and recording the label or tag information to memory for printing a report as specified at § 660.15. The label or tag must remain affixed to the tote until the tote is emptied. The label or tag must show the following information:
