
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### § 660.140 Shorebased IFQ Program.
###### Gear switching.,i.e.

(k)(1) Participants in the Shorebased IFQ Program may take IFQ species using any legal groundfish non-trawl gear (, gear switching) and are exempt from the gear endorsements at § 660.25(b)(3) for limited entry fixed gear permits, provided the following requirements are met:

(i) The vessel must be registered to a limited entry trawl permit.

(ii) The vessel must be registered to a vessel account that is not in deficit on any IFQ species.

(iii) The vessel operator must have submitted a valid gear declaration for the trip that declares "Limited entry groundfish non-trawl, shorebased IFQ," as specified in § 660.13(d)(5)(iv)(A), and does not declare any other designation (a Shorebased IFQ Program trip may not be combined with any other designation).

(iv) The vessel must comply with prohibitions applicable to the limited entry fixed gear fishery as specified at § 660.212, gear restrictions applicable to limited entry fixed gear as specified in §§ 660.219 and 660.230(b), and management measures specified in § 660.230(d), including restrictions on the fixed gear allowed onboard, its usage, and applicable fixed gear groundfish conservation area restrictions, except that the vessel will not be subject to limited entry fixed gear trip limits when fishing in the Shorebased IFQ Program. Vessels using bottom longline and snap gears as defined at § 660.11 are subject to the requirements of the Seabird Avoidance Program described in § 660.21.

(v) The vessel must comply with the limited entry trawl trip limits for species/species groups not covered under the Shorebased IFQ Program or whiting trip limits outside the primary season.

(vi) The vessel must comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements applicable to limited entry trawl gear as specified in § 660.113.

(vii) The vessel must comply with and observer requirements and all other provisions of the Shoreside IFQ Program as specified in this section.

(2) [Reserved]
