
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.150 Mothership (MS) Co-op Program.
###### Combination.

(v)An MS/CV-endorsed permit may be combined with one or more other limited entry trawl permits; the resulting permit will be a single permit with an increased size endorsement. If the MS/CV-endorsed permit is combined with another limited entry trawl-endorsed permit other than a C/P-endorsed permit, the resulting permit will be MS/CV-endorsed. If an MS/CV-endorsed permit is combined with a C/P-endorsed permit, the resulting permit will be exclusively a C/P-endorsed permit, and will not have an MS/CV endorsement. If an MS/CV-endorsed permit is combined with another MS/CV-endorsed permit, the combined catch history assignment of the permit(s) will be added to the active permit (the permit remaining after combination) and the other permit will be retired. If a trawl permit has more than one MS/CV endorsements and it is combined with a non C/P-endorsed trawl permit with no such endorsements, the MS/CV endorsements on the resulting permit will be maintained as separate endorsements on the resulting permit. NMFS will not approve a permit combination if it results in a person exceeding the accumulation limits specified at paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Any request to combine permits is subject to the provision provided at ยง 660.25(b), including the combination formula for resulting size endorsements.
