
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.150 Mothership (MS) Co-op Program.
###### Qualifying criteria for MS/CV endorsement.

(ii)In order to qualify for an MS/CV endorsement, a qualifying trawl-endorsed limited entry permit must have been registered to a vessel or vessels that caught and delivered a cumulative amount of at least 500 mt of Pacific whiting to motherships between 1994 through 2003. The calculation will be based on the following:

(A) To determine a permit's qualifying catch history, NMFS will use documented deliveries to a mothership in Pacific whiting observer data as recorded in the relevant NORPAC dataset on August 1, 2010.

(B) The qualifying catch history will include any deliveries of Pacific whiting to motherships by vessels registered to limited entry trawl-endorsed permits that were subsequently combined to generate the current permit.

(C) If two or more limited entry trawl permits have been simultaneously registered to the same vessel, NMFS will divide the qualifying catch history evenly between all such limited entry trawl-endorsed permits during the time they were simultaneously registered to the vessel.

(D) History of illegal deliveries will not be included in the qualifying catch history.

(E) Deliveries made from Federal limited entry groundfish permits that were retired through the Federal buyback program will not be included in the qualifying catch history.

(F) Deliveries made under provisional "A" permits that did not become "A" permits and "B" permits will not be included in the qualifying catch history.
