
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.150 Mothership (MS) Co-op Program.
###### Qualifying criteria for catch history assignment.

(iii)A catch history assignment will be specified as a percent on the MS/CV-endorsed permit. The calculation will be based on the following:

(A) For determination of a permit's catch history, NMFS will use documented deliveries to a mothership in Pacific whiting observer data as recorded in the relevant NORPAC dataset on August 1, 2010.

(B) NMFS will use relative history, which means the catch history of a permit for a year divided by the total fleet history for that year, expressed as a percent. NMFS will calculate relative history for each year in the qualifying period from 1994 through 2003 by dividing the total deliveries of Pacific whiting to motherships for the vessel(s) registered to the permit for each year by the sum of the total catch of Pacific whiting delivered to mothership vessel(s) for that year.

(C) NMFS will select the eight years with the highest relative history of Pacific whiting, unless the applicant requests a different set of eight years during the initial issuance and appeals process, and will add the relative histories for these years to generate the permit's total relative history. NMFS will then divide the permit's total relative history by the sum of all qualifying permits' total relative histories to determine the permit's catch history assignment, expressed as a percent.

(D) The total relative history will include any deliveries of Pacific whiting to motherships by vessels registered to limited entry trawl-endorsed permits that were subsequently combined to generate the current permit.

(E) If two or more limited entry trawl permits have been simultaneously registered to the same vessel, NMFS will split the catch history evenly between all such limited entry trawl-endorsed permits during the time they were simultaneously registered to the vessel.

(F) History of illegal deliveries will not be included in the calculation of a permit's catch history assignment or in the calculation of relative history for individual years.

(G) Deliveries made from Federal limited entry groundfish permits that were retired through the Federal buyback program will not be included in the calculation of a permit's catch history assignment other than for the purpose of calculating relative history for individual years.

(H) Deliveries made under provisional "A" permits that did not become "A" permits and "B" permits will not be included in the calculation of a permit's catch history assignment other than for the purpose of calculating relative history for individual years.
