
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart D - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Trawl Fisheries
##### ยง 660.160 Catcher/processor (C/P) Coop Program.
###### C/P Coop Program annual allocations.

(2)The C/P Coop Program allocation of Pacific whiting is equal to the catcher/processor sector allocation. Only a single coop may be formed in the catcher/processor sector with the one permitted coop receiving the catcher/processor sector allocation.

(i) In years where the Pacific whiting harvest specification is known by the start of the catcher/processor sector primary whiting season specified at ยง 660.131(b)(2)(iii)(A), allocation for Pacific whiting will be made by the start of the season.

(ii) In years where the Pacific whiting harvest specification is not known by the start of the catcher/processor sector primary whiting season specified at ยง 660.131(b)(2)(iii)(A), NMFS will issue Pacific whiting allocations in two parts. Before the start of the primary whiting season, NMFS will allocate Pacific whiting based on the C/P Coop Program allocation percent multiplied by the lower end of the range of potential harvest specifications for Pacific whiting for that year. After the final Pacific whiting harvest specifications are established, NMFS will allocate any additional amounts of Pacific whiting to the C/P Coop Program.
