
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart E - West Coast Groundfish - Limited Entry Fixed Gear Fisheries
##### ยง 660.231 Limited entry fixed gear sablefish primary fishery.
###### Cumulative limits.,i.e.,

(3)(i) A vessel participating in the primary season will be constrained by the sablefish cumulative limit associated with each of the permits registered for use with that vessel. During the primary season, each vessel authorized to fish in that season under paragraph (a) of this section may take, retain, possess, and land sablefish, up to the cumulative limits for each of the permits registered for use with that vessel (stacked permits). If multiple limited entry permits with sablefish endorsements are registered for use with a single vessel, that vessel may land up to the total of all cumulative limits announced in this paragraph for the tiers for those permits, except as limited by paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. Up to 3 permits may be registered for use with a single vessel during the primary season; thus, a single vessel may not take and retain, possess or land more than 3 primary season sablefish cumulative limits in any one year. A vessel registered for use with multiple limited entry permits is subject to per vessel limits for species other than sablefish, and to per vessel limits when participating in the daily trip limit fishery for sablefish under ยง 660.232. In 2023, the following annual limits are in effect: Tier 1 at 72,904 lb (33,069 kg), Tier 2 at 33,138 lb (15,031 kg), and Tier 3 at 18,936 lb (8,589 kg). In 2024 and beyond, the following annual limits are in effect: Tier 1 at 66,805 lb (30,302 kg), Tier 2 at 30,366 lb (13,774 kg), and Tier 3 at 17,352 lb (7,871 kg).

(ii) If a sablefish endorsed permit is registered to more than one vessel during the primary season in a single year, the second vessel may only take the portion of the cumulative limit for that permit that has not been harvested by the first vessel to which the permit was registered. The combined primary season sablefish landings for all vessels registered to that permit may not exceed the cumulative limit for the tier associated with that permit.

(iii) A cumulative trip limit is the maximum amount of sablefish that may be taken and retained, possessed, or landed per vessel in a specified period of time, with no limit on the number of landings or trips.

(iv) Incidental Pacific halibut retention north of Pt. Chehalis, WA (46&#xB0;53.30&#x2032; N lat.). From April 1 through the closure date set by the International Pacific Halibut Commission for Pacific halibut in all commercial fisheries, vessels authorized to participate in the sablefish primary fishery, licensed by the International Pacific Halibut Commission for commercial fishing in Area 2A (waters off Washington, Oregon, California), and fishing with longline gear north of Pt. Chehalis, WA (46&#xB0;53.30&#x2032; N lat.) may possess and land up to 150 lb (68 kg) dressed weight of Pacific halibut for every 1,000 lb (454 kg) dressed weight of sablefish landed, and up to two additional Pacific halibut in excess of the 150-lbs-per-1,000-pound limit per landing. NMFS publishes the International Pacific Halibut Commission's regulations setting forth annual management measures, including the closure date for Pacific halibut in all commercial fisheries, in theby March 15 each year, 50 CFR 300.62. "Dressed" Pacific halibut in this area means halibut landed eviscerated with their heads on. Pacific halibut taken and retained in the sablefish primary fishery north of Pt. Chehalis may only be landed north of Pt. Chehalis and may not be possessed or landed south of Pt. Chehalis.
