
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart G - West Coast Groundfish - Recreational Fisheries
##### ยง 660.360 Recreational fishery - management measures.
###### Recreational rockfish conservation areas.,i.e.,

(A)The recreational RCAs are areas that are closed to recreational fishing for certain groundfish. Fishing for the California rockfish, cabezon, greenling complex (RCG Complex), as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, and lingcod with recreational gear is prohibited within the recreational RCA. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land the RCG Complex and lingcod taken with recreational gear within the recreational RCA, unless otherwise authorized in this section. A vessel fishing in the recreational RCA may not be in possession of any species prohibited by the restrictions that apply within the recreational RCA. For example, if a vessel fishes in the recreational salmon fishery within the recreational RCA, the vessel cannot be in possession of the RCG Complex and lingcod while in the recreational RCA. The vessel may, however, on the same trip fish for and retain rockfish shoreward of the recreational RCA on the return trip to port. If the season is closed for a species or species group, fishing for that species or species group is prohibited both within the recreational RCA and outside of the recreational RCA, unless otherwise authorized in this section. In times and areas where a recreational RCA is closed shoreward of a recreational RCA line (when an "off-shore only" fishery is active in that management area) possession or retention of nearshore rockfish (defined as black rockfish, blue rockfish, black and yellow rockfish, brown rockfish, China rockfish, copper rockfish, calico rockfish, gopher rockfish, kelp rockfish, grass rockfish, olive rockfish, quillback rockfish, and treefish), cabezon, and greenlings is prohibited in all depths throughout the area; and possession and retention of all rockfish, cabezon, greenlings, and lingcod is prohibited shoreward of the recreational RCA boundary line, except that vessels may transit through waters shoreward of the recreational RCA line with no fishing gear in the water. Coordinates approximating boundary lines at the 30 fm (55 m) through 100 fm (183 m) depth contours can be found at ยง 660.71 through ยง 660.73. The recreational fishing season structure and RCA depth boundaries seaward of California by management area and month are as follows:
