
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart G - West Coast Groundfish - Recreational Fisheries
##### ยง 660.360 Recreational fishery - management measures.
###### Cowcod conservation areas.,5,5

(B)The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Cowcod Conservation Areas (CCAs) boundaries are specified at ยง 660.70. Recreational fishing for all groundfish is prohibited within the CCAs, except as specified in this paragraph. Fishing for California scorpionfish, petrale sole, starry flounder, and "Other Flatfish" is permitted within the CCAs as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv) and (c)(3)(v) of this section. Recreational fishing for the following species is permitted shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 40 fm (37 m) depth contour when the season, as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A)() and (c)(3)(iii)(A)() of this section, for those species is open south of 34&#xB0;27&#x2032; N lat.: Minor nearshore rockfish, cabezon, kelp greenling, lingcod, and shelf rockfish. Retention of all groundfish except California scorpionfish, petrale sole, starry flounder, and "Other Flatfish", is prohibited within the CCA. Coordinates for the boundary line approximating the 40 fm (73 m) depth contour are listed in ยง 660.71. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken within the CCAs, except for species authorized in this section.
