
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart H - West Coast Salmon Fisheries
##### ยง 660.405 Prohibitions.

(a) In addition to the general prohibitions specified in ยง 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following, except as otherwise authorized under this part:

(1) Take and retain or land salmon caught with a net in the fishery management area, except that a hand-held net may be used to bring hooked salmon on board a vessel.

(2) Fish for, or take and retain, any species of salmon:

(i) During closed seasons or in closed areas;

(ii) While possessing on board any species not allowed to be taken in the area at the time;

(iii) Once any catch limit is attained;

(iv) By means of gear or methods other than recreational fishing gear or troll fishing gear, or gear authorized under ยง 660.408(k) for treaty Indian fishing;

(v) In violation of any action issued under this subpart; or

(vi) In violation of any applicable area, season, species, zone, gear, daily bag limit, or length restriction.

(3) Fish for salmon in an area when salmon of less than the legal minimum length for that area are on board the fishing vessel, except that this provision does not prohibit transit of an area when salmon of less than the legal minimum length for that area are on board, so long as no fishing is being conducted.

(4) Remove the head of any salmon caught in the fishery management area, or possess a salmon with the head removed, if that salmon has been marked by removal of the adipose fin to indicate that a coded wire tag has been implanted in the head of the fish.

(5) Take and retain or possess on board a fishing vessel any species of salmon that is less than the applicable minimum total length, including the applicable minimum length for dressed, head-off salmon.

(6) Possess on board a fishing vessel a salmon, for which a minimum total length is extended or cannot be determined, except that dressed, head-off salmon may be possessed on board a freezer trolling vessel, unless the adipose fin of such salmon has been removed.

(7) Fail to return to the water immediately and with the least possible injury any salmon the retention of which is prohibited by this subpart.

(8) Engage in recreational fishing while aboard a vessel engaged in commercial fishing. This restriction is not intended to prohibit the use of fishing gear otherwise permitted under the definitions of troll and recreational fishing gear, so long as that gear is legal in the fishery for which it is being used.

(9) Take and retain, possess, or land any steelhead taken in the course of commercial fishing in the fishery management area, unless such take and retention qualifies as treaty Indian fishing.

(10) Sell, barter, offer to sell, offer to barter, or purchase any salmon taken in the course of recreational salmon fishing.

(11) Refuse to submit fishing gear or catch subject to such person's control to inspection by an authorized officer, or to interfere with or prevent, by any means, such an inspection.
