
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart H - West Coast Salmon Fisheries
##### ยง 660.409 Inseason actions.
###### Flexible inseason management provisions.

(b)(1) The Regional Administrator will consult with the Chairman of the Council and the appropriate State Directors prior to taking any of the following flexible inseason management provisions, which include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Modification of quotas and/or fishing seasons.

(ii) Modification of the species that may be caught and landed during specific seasons and the establishment or modification of limited retention regulations.

(iii) Modification of recreational bag limits and recreational fishing days per calendar week.

(iv) Establishment or modification of gear restrictions.

(v) Modification of boundaries, including landing boundaries, and establishment of closed areas.

(2) Fishery managers must determine that any inseason adjustment in management measures is consistent with fishery regimes established by the U.S.-Canada Pacific Salmon Commission, conservation objectives and ACLs, conservation of the salmon resource, any adjudicated Indian fishing rights, and the ocean allocation scheme in the fishery management plan. All inseason adjustments will be based on consideration of the following factors:

(i) Predicted sizes of salmon runs.

(ii) Harvest quotas and hooking mortality limits for the area and total allowable impact limitations, if applicable.

(iii) Amount of commercial, recreational, and treaty Indian catch for each species in the area to date.

(iv) Amount of commercial, recreational, and treaty Indian fishing effort in the area to date.

(v) Estimated average daily catch per fisherman.

(vi) Predicted fishing effort for the area to the end of the scheduled season.

(vii) Other factors, as appropriate.
