
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart I - Coastal Pelagics Fisheries
##### ยง 660.511 Catch restrictions.
###### Salmonidae,Hippoglossus stenolepis

(e) While fishing for CPS, all species of trout and salmon () and Pacific halibut () are prohibited species and must be released immediately with a minimum of injury.

(f) On July 1, 40 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(g) On September 15, 25 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the July 1 allocation in paragraph (f) of this section is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(h) On January 1, 35 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the September 15 allocation is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(i) The following harvest specifications apply for Pacific mackerel:

(1) For the Pacific mackerel fishing season July 1, 2021, through June 30, 2022, the harvest guideline is 8,323 mt and the ACT is 7,323 mt; and

(2) For the Pacific mackerel fishing season July 1, 2022, through June 30, 2023, the harvest guideline is 5,822 mt and the ACT of 4,822 mt.

(j) When an ACT in paragraph (i) of this section has been reached or exceeded, then for the remainder of the Pacific mackerel fishing season, Pacific mackerel may not be targeted and landings of Pacific mackerel may not exceed: 45 percent of landings when Pacific mackerel are landed in CPS fisheries (in other words, no more than 45 percent by weight of the CPS landed per trip may be Pacific mackerel), or up to 3 mt of Pacific mackerel when landed in non-CPS fisheries. The NMFS West Coast Regional Administer shall announce in thethe date that an ACT is reached or exceeded, and the date and time that the restrictions described in this paragraph (j) go into effect.

(k) The following ACLs apply to fishing for monitored stocks of CPS finfish:

(1) Northern Anchovy (Central Subpopulation): 25,000 mt.

(2) [Reserved]
