
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart I - Coastal Pelagics Fisheries
##### ยง 660.512 Limited entry fishery.
###### Issuance of new permits.

(h)(1) When the aggregate gross tonnage of all vessels participating in the limited entry fishery declines below 5,650.9 metric tons (mt), the Council will review the status of the fishery, taking into consideration:

(i) The changes in gross tonnage that have and are likely to occur in the transfer of limited entry permits;

(ii) The actual harvesting capacity as experienced in the current fishery in comparison to the capacity goal;

(iii) Comments of the CPSMT;

(iv) Any other relevant factors related to maintaining the capacity goal.

(2) Following its review, the Council will recommend to NMFS whether additional permit(s) should be issued and if the new permit(s) should be temporary or permanent. The issuance of new permit(s) shall be based on the following:

(i) The qualifying criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, but vessels that were issued a permit before December 31, 2000, are not eligible.

(ii) If no vessel meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph (b), then the permit(s) will be issued to the vessel(s) with total landings nearest 100 mt during the qualifying period of paragraph (b).

(iii) No vessel will be issued a permit under this paragraph (h) that is currently registered for use with a permit.

(3) The Regional Administrator will review the Council's recommendation and determine whether issuing additional permit(s) is consistent with the FMP and with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. If issuing additional permit(s) is appropriate, the Regional Administrator will:

(i) Issue the appropriate number of permits consistent with the Council's recommendation; and

(ii) Publish a document in thenotifying the public that new permits or a new permit has been issued, the conditions attached to any permit, and the reasons for the action.
