
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart J - West Coast Groundfish Electronic Monitoring Program
##### § 660.603 Electronic monitoring provider permits and responsibilities.
###### Technical assistance and litigation information.

(l)As a requirement of its permit, the EM service provider must provide the following to NMFS or authorized officers, upon request.

(1) Assistance in EM system operation, diagnosing and resolving technical issues, and recovering corrupted or lost data.

(2) Responses to inquiries related to data summaries, analyses, reports, and operational issues with vessel representatives.

(3) Technical and expert information, if the EM system/data are being admitted as evidence in a court of law. All technical aspects of a NMFS-approved EM system may be analyzed in court for, inter alia, testing procedures, error rates, peer review, technical processes and general industry acceptance. To substantiate the EM system data and address issues raised in litigation, an EM service provider must provide information, including but not limited to:

(i) If the technologies have previously been subject to such scrutiny in a court of law, a brief summary of the litigation and any court findings on the reliability of the technology.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) All software necessary for accessing, viewing, and interpreting the data generated by the EM system, including maintenance releases to correct errors in the software or enhance the functionality of the software.

(5) Notification NMFS within 24 hours after the EM service provider becomes aware of the following:

(i) Any information, allegations, or reports regarding possible harassment of EM provider staff;

(ii) Any information, allegations, or reports regarding possible EM system tampering;

(iii) Any information, allegations, or reports regarding any action prohibited under §§ 660.12(f) or 660.602(a)(13); or,

(iv) Any information, allegations or reports regarding EM service provider staff conflicts of interest.

(6) Notification to NMFS of any change of management or contact information or a change to insurance coverage.

(7) A copy of any contract between the service provider and entities requiring EM services;

(8) Proof of sufficient insurance as defined in paragraph (i);

(9) Copies of any information developed and used by the EM service provider and distributed to vessels, including, but not limited to, informational pamphlets, payment notifications, and description of EM service provider duties; and,

(10) EM data and associated meta data, and other records specified in this section.
