
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart J - West Coast Groundfish Electronic Monitoring Program
##### ยง 660.603 Electronic monitoring provider permits and responsibilities.
###### Data services.

(m)For vessels with which it has a contract (see ยง 660.604(k)), the EM service provider must provide and manage EM data and logbook processing, reporting, and record retention services, as described below and according to a NMFS-approved EM Service Plan, which is required under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, and as described in the EM Program Manual or other written and oral instructions provided by the EM program, and such that the EM program achieves its purpose as defined at ยง 660.600(b).

(1) The EM service provider must process vessels' EM data and logbooks according to a prescribed coverage level or sampling scheme, as specified by NMFS in consultation with the Council, and determine an estimate of discards for each trip using standardized estimation methods specified by NMFS. NMFS will maintain manuals for EM and logbook data processing protocols on its website.

(2) The EM service provider must ensure that its data processing staff are fully trained in:

(i) Use of data processing software;

(ii) Species identification;

(iii) Fate determination and metadata reporting requirements;

(iv) Data processing procedures;

(v) Data tracking; and,

(vi) Reporting and data upload procedures.

(3) The EM service provider must track hard drives and EM datasets throughout their cycles, including documenting any access and modifications. If end-to-end encryption is not used to protect EM data, EM data must be removed from hard drives or other mediums before returning them to the field.

(4) The EM service provider must communicate with vessel operators and NMFS to coordinate data service needs, resolve specific program issues, and provide feedback on program operations. No later than three weeks from the date of receipt of EM data for processing from the vessel operator, the EM service provider must provide feedback to vessel representatives, field services staff, and NMFS regarding:

(i) Adjustments to system settings;

(ii) Changes to camera positions;

(iii) Advice to vessel personnel on duty of care responsibilities;

(iv) Advice to vessel personnel on catch handling practices; and,

(v) Any other information that would improve the quality and effectiveness of data collection on the vessel.
