
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart J - West Coast Groundfish Electronic Monitoring Program
##### ยง 660.604 Vessel and first receiver responsibilities.
###### Maximized retention bottom trawl and non-whiting midwater trawl trips.

(3)A vessel operator on a declared maximized retention trip using bottom trawl gear, or midwater trawl gear in which Pacific whiting constitutes less than 50 percent of the catch by weight at landing, the vessel must not sort catch at sea and must retain all catch until landing, with exceptions listed below in paragraphs (p)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. All discards must be discarded following instructions in the VMP per paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. All discards, regardless of the source, must be reported in a discard logbook, as defined at ยง 660.604(s)(1), including the species (where possible), estimated weight, and reason for discard. The vessel operator is responsible for ensuring that all catch is handled in a manner that enables the EM system to record it.

(i) Minor operational discards are permitted. Minor operational discards include mutilated fish; fish vented from an overfull codend; and fish removed from the deck and fishing gear during cleaning. Minor operational discards do not include discards that result when more catch is taken than is necessary to fill the hold or catch from a tow that is not delivered.
