
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart K - Highly Migratory Fisheries
##### ยง 660.712 Longline fishery.
###### Xiphias gladius

(2) Owners and operators of vessels registered for use of longline gear may not make shallow sets with longline gear to fish for or target swordfish () west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; N. lat.).

(3) A person aboard a vessel registered for use of longline gear fishing for HMS west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; N. lat.) may not possess or deploy any float line that is shorter than or equal to 20 m (65.6 ft or 10.9 fm). As used in this paragraph, float line means a line used to suspend the main longline beneath a float.

(4) From April 1 through May 31, owners and operators of vessels registered for use of longline gear may not use longline gear in waters bounded on the south by 0&#xB0; lat., on the north by 15&#xB0; N. lat., on the east by 145&#xB0; W. long., and on the west by 180&#xB0; long.

(5) From April 1 through May 31, owners and operators of vessels registered for use of longline gear may not receive from another vessel HMS that were harvested by longline gear in waters bounded on the south by 0&#xB0; lat., on the north by 15&#xB0; N. lat., on the east by 145&#xB0; W. long., and on the west by 180&#xB0; long.

(6) From April 1 through May 31, owners and operators of vessels registered for use of longline gear may not land or transship HMS that were harvested by longline gear in waters bounded on the south by 0&#xB0; lat., on the north by 15&#xB0; N. lat., on the east by 145&#xB0; W. long., and on the west by 180&#xB0; long.

(7) No light stick may be possessed on board a vessel registered for use of longline gear during fishing trips that include any fishing west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; N. lat.). A light stick as used in this paragraph is any type of light emitting device, including any flourescent glow bead, chemical, or electrically powered light that is affixed underwater to the longline gear.

(8) When a conventional monofilament longline is deployed in waters west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; N. lat.) by a vessel registered for use of longline gear, no fewer than 15 branch lines may be set between any two floats. Vessel operators using basket-style longline gear must set a minimum of 10 branch lines between any 2 floats when fishing in waters north of the equator.
