
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 660 - FISHERIES OFF WEST COAST STATES
#### Subpart K - Highly Migratory Fisheries
##### ยง 660.720 Interim protection for sea turtles.
###### Xiphias gladius

(1) Direct fishing effort toward the harvest of swordfish () using longline gear deployed on the high seas of the Pacific Ocean west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; lat.).

(2) Possess a light stick on board a longline vessel on the high seas of the Pacific Ocean west of 150&#xB0; W. long. north of the equator. A light stick as used in this paragraph is any type of light emitting device, including any fluorescent glow bead, chemical, or electrically powered light that is affixed underwater to the longline gear.

(3) An operator of a longline vessel subject to this section may land or possess no more than 10 swordfish from a fishing trip where any part of the trip included fishing west of 150&#xB0; W. long. and north of the equator (0&#xB0; N. lat.).

(4) Fail to employ basket-style longline gear such that the mainline is deployed slack when fishing on the high seas of the Pacific Ocean west of 150&#xB0; W. long. north of the equator.

(5) When a conventional monofilament longline is deployed by a vessel subject to this section, no fewer than 15 branch lines may be set between any two floats. Vessel operators using basket-style longline gear must set a minimum of 10 branch lines between any 2 floats when fishing in waters west of 150&#xB0; W. long. north of the equator.
