
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 665.13 Permits and fees.
###### Fees.

(f)(1) PIRO will not charge a fee for a permit issued under §§ 665.142, 665.162, 665.242, 665.262, 665.442, 665.462, 665.642, or 665.662 of this part, for a Ho'omalu limited access permit issued under § 665.203, or for a Guam bottomfish permit issued under § 665.404.

(2) PIRO will charge a non-refundable processing fee for each application (including transfer and renewal) for each permit listed in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (f)(2)(xiii) of this section. The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining the administrative costs incurred in processing the permit. The fee may not exceed such costs. The appropriate fee is specified with each application form and must accompany each application. Failure to pay the fee will preclude the issuance, transfer, or renewal of any of the following permits:

(i) Hawaii longline limited access permit.

(ii) Mau Zone limited access permit.

(iii) Coral reef ecosystem special permit.

(iv) American Samoa longline limited access permit.

(v) MHI non-commercial bottomfish permit.

(vi) Western Pacific squid jig permit.

(vii) Crustacean permit.

(viii) CNMI commercial bottomfish permit.

(ix) Marianas Trench Monument non-commercial permit.

(x) Marianas Trench Monument recreational charter permit.

(xi) Pacific Remote Islands Monument recreational charter permit.

(xii) Rose Atoll Monument non-commercial permit.

(xiii) Rose Atoll Monument recreational charter permit.
