
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.14 Reporting and recordkeeping.
###### Electronic records.

(ii)(A) The operator of a fishing vessel subject to the requirements of ยง 665.801(b) or a large vessel subject to the requirements of ยง 665.801(c) must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data electronically using a NMFS-certified electronic logbook, and must record and transmit electronically all information specified by the Regional Administrator within 24 hours after the completion of each fishing day.

(B) After the Regional Administrator has notified a permit holder subject to this section of the requirement to submit records electronically, and after the vessel has acquired the necessary NMFS-certified equipment, the vessel and any vessel operator must use the electronic logbook. A vessel operator must obtain an individually assigned user account from NMFS for use with the electronic logbook.

(C) Permit holders and vessel operators shall not be assessed any fee or other charges to obtain and use an electronic logbook that is owned and provided by NMFS. If a permit holder or vessel operator subject to this section does not use a NMFS-owned electronic logbook, the permit holder and operator must provide and maintain an alternative NMFS-certified electronic logbook.

(D) If a vessel operator is unable to maintain or transmit electronic records because NMFS has not provided an electronic logbook, or if NMFS or a vessel operator identifies that the electronic logbook has experienced equipment (hardware or software) or transmission failure, the operator must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data electronically or on paper report forms provided by the Regional Administrator.
