
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.17 Experimental fishing.
###### Application.

(c)An applicant for an EFP must submit to the Regional Administrator at least 60 days before the desired date of the EFP a written application including, but not limited to, the following information:

(1) The date of the application.

(2) The applicant's name, mailing address, and telephone number.

(3) A statement of the purposes and goals of the experiment for which an EFP is needed, including a general description of the arrangements for disposition of all species harvested under the EFP.

(4) A statement of whether the proposed experimental fishing has broader significance than the applicant's individual goals.

(5) For each vessel to be covered by the EFP:

(i) Vessel name.

(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of owner and operator.

(iii) USCG documentation, state license, or registration number.

(iv) Home port.

(v) Length of vessel.

(vi) Net tonnage.

(vii) Gross tonnage.

(6) A description of the species (directed and incidental) to be harvested under the EFP and the amount of such harvest necessary to conduct the experiment.

(7) For each vessel covered by the EFP, the approximate times and places fishing will take place, and the type, size, and amount of gear to be used.

(8) The signature of the applicant.
