
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.17 Experimental fishing.
###### Issuance.

(e)(1) If an application contains all of the required information, NMFS will publish a notice of receipt of the application in thewith a brief description of the proposal and will give interested persons an opportunity to comment. The Regional Administrator will also forward copies of the application to the Council, the USCG, and the fishery management agency of the affected state, accompanied by the following information:

(i) The current utilization of domestic annual harvesting and processing capacity (including existing experimental harvesting, if any) of the directed and incidental species for which an EFP is being requested.

(ii) A citation of the regulation or regulations that, without the EFP, would prohibit the proposed activity.

(iii) Biological information relevant to the proposal.

(2) At a Council meeting following receipt of a complete application, the Regional Administrator will consult with the Council and the Director of the affected state fishery management agency concerning the permit application. The applicant will be notified in advance of the meeting at which the application will be considered, and invited to appear in support of the application, if the applicant desires.

(3) Within 5 working days after the consultation in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, or as soon as practicable thereafter, NMFS will notify the applicant in writing of the decision to grant or deny the EFP and, if denied, the reasons for the denial. Grounds for denial of an EFP include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) The applicant has failed to disclose material information required, or has made false statements as to any material fact, in connection with his or her application.

(ii) According to the best scientific information available, the harvest to be conducted under the permit would detrimentally affect any species of fish in a significant way.

(iii) Issuance of the EFP would inequitably allocate fishing privileges among domestic fishermen or would have economic allocation as its sole purpose.

(iv) Activities to be conducted under the EFP would be inconsistent with the intent of this section or the management objectives of the FEP.

(v) The applicant has failed to demonstrate a valid justification for the permit.

(vi) The activity proposed under the EFP would create a significant enforcement problem.

(4) The decision to grant or deny an EFP is final and unappealable. If the permit is granted, NMFS will publish a notice in thedescribing the experimental fishing to be conducted under the EFP. The Regional Administrator may attach terms and conditions to the EFP consistent with the purpose of the experiment including, but not limited to:

(i) The maximum amount of each species that can be harvested and landed during the term of the EFP, including trip limits, where appropriate.

(ii) The number, sizes, names, and identification numbers of the vessels authorized to conduct fishing activities under the EFP.

(iii) The times and places where experimental fishing may be conducted.

(iv) The type, size, and amount of gear which may be used by each vessel operated under the EFP.

(v) The condition that observers be carried aboard vessels operating under an EFP.

(vi) Data reporting requirements.

(vii) Such other conditions as may be necessary to assure compliance with the purposes of the EFP consistent with the objectives of the FEP.
