
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.18 Framework adjustments to management measures.
###### Federal management action.

(3)(i) If the Council believes that management action should be considered, it will make specific recommendations to the Regional Administrator after requesting and considering the views of its Scientific and Statistical Committee and Bottomfish Advisory Panel and obtaining public comments at a public hearing.

(ii) The Regional Administrator will consider the Council's recommendation and accompanying data, and, if he or she concurs with the Council's recommendation, will propose regulations to carry out the action. If the Regional Administrator rejects the Council's proposed action, a written explanation for the denial will be provided to the Council within 2 weeks of the decision.

(iii) The Council may appeal a denial by writing to the Assistant Administrator, who must respond in writing within 30 days.

(iv) The Regional Administrator and the Assistant Administrator will make their decisions in accord with the Magnuson-Stevens Act, other applicable law, and the bottomfish measures of the FEPs.

(v) To minimize conflicts between the Federal and state management systems, the Council will use the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to respond to state/territorial management actions. Council consideration of action would normally begin with a representative of the state or territorial government bringing a potential or actual management conflict or need to the Council's attention.
