
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.18 Framework adjustments to management measures.
###### Bottomfish measures,Annual reports.

(c)-(1)By June 30 of each year, a Council-appointed bottomfish monitoring team will prepare an annual report on the fishery by area covering the following topics:

(i) Fishery performance data.

(ii) Summary of recent research and survey results.

(iii) Habitat conditions and recent alterations.

(iv) Enforcement activities and problems.

(v) Administrative actions (e.g., data collection and reporting, permits).

(vi) State and territorial management actions.

(vii) Assessment of need for Council action (including biological, economic, social, enforcement, administrative, and state/Federal needs, problems, and trends). Indications of potential problems warranting further investigation may be signaled by the following indicator criteria:

(A) Mean size of the catch of any species in any area is a pre-reproductive size.

(B) Ratio of fishing mortality to natural mortality for any species.

(C) Harvest capacity of the existing fleet and/or annual landings exceed best estimate of MSY in any area.

(D) Significant decline (50 percent or more) in bottomfish catch per unit of effort from baseline levels.

(E) Substantial decline in ex-vessel revenue relative to baseline levels.

(F) Significant shift in the relative proportions of gear in any one area.

(G) Significant change in the frozen/fresh components of the bottomfish catch.

(H) Entry/exit of fishermen in any area.

(I) Per-trip costs for bottomfish fishing exceed per-trip revenues for a significant percentage of trips.

(J) Significant decline or increase in total bottomfish landings in any area.

(K) Change in species composition of the bottomfish catch in any area.

(L) Research results.

(M) Habitat degradation or environmental problems.

(N) Reported interactions between bottomfish fishing operations and protected species in the NWHI.

(viii) Recommendations for Council action.

(ix) Estimated impacts of recommended action.
