
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.18 Framework adjustments to management measures.
###### Procedure for new measures.

(2)(i) New measures are regulations for which the impacts have not been evaluated in Council or NMFS documents in the context of current conditions. New measures include, but are not limited to, catch limits, resource size limits, closures, effort limitations, reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(ii) The Regional Administrator will publicize, including bynotice, and solicit public comment on, any proposed new management measure. After a Council meeting at which the measure is discussed, the Council will consider recommendations and prepare a document summarizing the Council's deliberations, rationale, and analysis for the preferred action, and the time and place for any subsequent Council meeting(s) to consider the new measure. At subsequent public meeting(s), the Council will consider public comments and other information received to make a recommendation to the Regional Administrator about any new measure. NMFS may implement the Council's recommendation by rulemaking if approved by the Regional Administrator.

(A) The Regional Administrator will consider the Council's recommendation and supporting rationale and analysis, and, if the Regional Administrator concurs with the Council's recommendation, will propose regulations to carry out the action. If the Regional Administrator rejects the Council's proposed action, the Regional Administrator will provide a written explanation for the denial within 2 weeks of the decision.

(B) The Council may appeal a denial by writing to the Assistant Administrator, who must respond in writing within 30 days.

(C) The Regional Administrator and the Assistant Administrator will make their decisions in accordance with the Magnuson-Stevens Act, other applicable laws, and the FEPs.

(D) To minimize conflicts between the Federal and state/territorial/commonwealth management systems, the Council will use the procedures in this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) to respond to state/territorial/commonwealth management actions. The Council's consideration of action would normally begin with a representative of the state, territorial or commonwealth government bringing a potential or actual management conflict or need to the Council's attention.
