
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.20 Western Pacific Community Development Program.
###### Agency review and approval.

(e)(1) Upon receipt of a community development plan from the Council, the Regional Administrator will review the plan for consistency with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, and other applicable laws. The Regional Administrator may request from the applicant additional information necessary to make the determinations pursuant to this section and other applicable laws before proceeding with the review pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) If the Regional Administrator determines that a plan contains the required information and is consistent with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, and other applicable laws, NMFS will publish a notice in theto solicit public comment on the proposed plan and any associated environmental review documents. The notice will include the following:

(i) A description of the fishing activity to be conducted.

(ii) The current utilization of domestic annual harvesting and processing capacity (including existing experimental harvesting, if any) of the target, incidental, and bycatch species.

(iii) A summary of any regulations that would otherwise prohibit the proposed fishing activity.

(iv) Biological and environmental information relevant to the plan, including appropriate statements of environmental impacts on target and non-target stocks, marine mammals, and threatened or endangered species.

(3) Within 90 days from the end of the comment period on the plan, the Regional Administrator will notify the applicant in writing of the decision to approve or disapprove the plan.

(4) If disapproved, the Regional Administrator will provide the reasons for the plan's disapproval and provide the community with the opportunity to modify the plan and resubmit it for review. Reasons for disapproval may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) The applicant failed to disclose material information or made false statements related to the plan.

(ii) The harvest would contribute to overfishing or would hinder the recovery of an overfished stock, according to the best scientific information available.

(iii) The activity would be inconsistent with an applicable law.

(iv) The activity would create a significant enforcement, monitoring, or administrative problem, as determined by the Regional Administrator.

(5) If approved, the Regional Administrator will publish a notice of the authorization in theand may attach limiting terms and conditions to the authorization including, but not limited to, the following:

(i) The maximum amount of each management unit species and potential bycatch species that may be harvested and landed during the term of the authorization.

(ii) The number, sizes, names, identification numbers, and federal permit numbers of the vessels authorized to conduct fishing activities.

(iii) Type, size, and amount of gear used by each vessel, including trip limits.

(iv) The times and places where fishing may or may not be conducted.

(v) Notification, observer, vessel monitoring, and reporting requirements.
