
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 665.20 Western Pacific Community Development Program.
###### Community development plan.

(c)An eligible community seeking access to a fishery under the authority of the Council and NMFS must submit to the Council a community development plan that includes, but is not limited to, the following information:

(1) A statement of the purposes and goals of the plan.

(2) A description and justification for the specific fishing activity being proposed, including:

(i) Location of the proposed fishing activity.

(ii) Management unit species to be harvested, and any potential bycatch.

(iii) Gear type(s) to be used.

(iv) Frequency and duration of the proposed fishing activity.

(3) A statement describing the degree of involvement by the indigenous community members, including the name, address, telephone and other contact information of each individual conducting the proposed fishing activity.

(4) A description of how the community and or its members meet each of the eligibility criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) If a vessel is to be used by the community to conduct fishing activities, for each vessel:

(i) Vessel name and official number (USCG documentation, state, territory, or other registration number).

(ii) Vessel length overall, displacement, and fish holding capacity.

(iii) Any valid federal fishing permit number(s).

(iv) Name, address, and telephone number of the vessel owner(s) and operator(s).
