
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart B - American Samoa Fisheries
##### ยง 665.106 American Samoa annual catch limits (ACL).

(a) In accordance with ยง 665.4, the ACL for American Samoa bottomfish MUS is 5,000 lb.

(b) When NMFS projects the ACL will be reached, the Regional Administrator shall publish a document to that effect in theand shall use other means to notify permit holders. The document will include an advisement that the fishery will be closed, beginning at a specified date that is not earlier than seven days after the date of filing the closure notification for public inspection at the Office of the Federal Register, through the end of the fishing year in which the catch limit is reached.

(c) If the ACL is exceeded in any fishing year, the Regional Administrator shall publish a document to that effect in theand shall use other means to notify permit holders. The document will include an advisement that the fishery will be closed, beginning at a specified date that is not earlier than seven days after the date of filing the closure notification for public inspection at the Office of the Federal Register. The fishery will remain closed until such time that a coordinated approach to management is developed that ensures catch in both Federal and territorial waters can be maintained at levels that allow the stock to rebuild or the rebuilding plan is modified based on the best scientific information available.

(d) On and after the date the fishery is closed as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, fishing for and possession of American Samoa bottomfish MUS is prohibited in the American Samoa fishery management area, except as otherwise authorized by law.

(e) On and after the date the fishery is closed as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the sale, offering for sale, and purchase of any American Samoa bottomfish MUS caught in the American Samoa fishery management area is prohibited.
