
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### ยง 665.203 Permits.
###### Notification.

(4)The Regional Administrator shall place a notice in theand shall use other means to notify prospective applicants of the opportunity to file applications for new permits under this program.

(h) Eligibility for new Mau Zone limited access permits.

(1) PIRO will issue an initial Mau Zone permit to a vessel owner who qualifies for at least three points under the following point system:

(i) An owner who held a Mau Zone permit on or before December 17, 1991, and whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS on or before December 17, 1991, shall be assigned 1.5 points.

(ii) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1991 shall be assigned 0.5 point.

(iii) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1992 shall be assigned 1.0 point.

(iv) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1993 shall be assigned 1.5 points.

(v) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1994 shall be assigned 2.0 points.

(vi) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1995 shall be assigned 2.5 points.

(vii) An owner whose permitted vessel made at least one qualifying landing of Hawaii bottomfish MUS during 1996 shall be assigned 3.0 points.

(viii) Before PIRO issues a Mau Zone permit to fish for bottomfish under this section, the primary operator and relief operator named on the application form must have completed a protected species workshop conducted by NMFS.

(2) For purposes of this paragraph (h), a "qualifying landing" means any amount of Hawaii bottomfish MUS lawfully harvested from the Mau Zone and offloaded for sale. No points shall be assigned to an owner for any qualifying landings reported to the State of Hawaii more than 1 year after the landing.

(3) More than one Mau Zone permit may be issued to an owner of two or more vessels, provided each of the owner's vessels for which a permit will be registered for use has made the required qualifying landings for the owner to be assigned at least three eligibility points.

(4) A Mau Zone permit holder who does not own a vessel at the time initial permits are issued must register the permit for use with a vessel owned by the permit holder within 12 months from the date the permit was issued. In the interim, the permit holder may register the permit for use with a leased or chartered vessel. If within 12 months of initial permit issuance, the permit holder fails to apply to PIRO to register the permit for use with a vessel owned by the permit holder, then the permit shall expire.

(5) For each of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(viii) of this section, PIRO shall assign points based on the landings of one permitted vessel to only one owner if the vessel did not have multiple owners during the time frame covered by the subordinate paragraphs. If a vessel had multiple owners during a time frame covered by any of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(viii) of this section (including joint owners, partners, or shareholders of a corporate owner), PIRO will assign the points for that subordinate paragraph to a single owner if only one owner submits an application with respect to the landings of that vessel during that time frame. If multiple owners submit separate applications with respect to the same landings of the same vessel during the same time frame, then PIRO shall:

(i) Adhere to any written agreement between the applicants with respect to who among them shall be assigned the aggregate point(s) generated by landings during such time frame(s), or

(ii) If there is no agreement:

(A) Shall issue the applicants a joint permit provided the vessel's landings during such time frames generated at least three points, or

(B) In the event the vessel's landings during such time frame(s) generated less than three points, shall not assign any points generated by the vessel's landings during such time frame(s).

(i) Ownership requirements and registration of Mau Zone limited access permits for use with other vessels.

(1) A Mau Zone permit may be held by an individual, partnership, or corporation. No more than 49 percent of the underlying ownership interest in a Mau Zone permit may be sold, leased, chartered, or otherwise transferred to another person or entity. If more than 49 percent of the underlying ownership of the permit passes to persons or entities other than those listed in the original permit application supplemental information sheet, then the permit expires and must be surrendered to PIRO.

(2) A Mau Zone permit holder may apply under ยง 665.13 to PIRO to register the permit for use with another vessel if that vessel is owned by the permit holder, and is no longer than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA.

(3) If a Mau Zone permit holder sells the vessel for which the permit is registered for use, the permit holder must, within 12 months of the date of sale, apply to PIRO to register the permit for use with a vessel owned by the permit holder. If the permit holder has not applied to register a replacement vessel within 12 months, then the permit expires.

(4) If a permitted vessel owned by the permit holder is sold or becomes unseaworthy, the Mau Zone permit with which the vessel was registered may be registered for use with a leased or chartered vessel for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of registration of the leased or chartered vessel. If by the end of that 12-month period the permit holder fails to apply to PIRO to register the permit for use with a vessel owned by the permit holder, then the permit expires.

(j) Mau Zone limited access permit renewal.

(1) A Mau Zone permit will be eligible for renewal if the vessel for which the permit is registered for use made at least five separate fishing trips with landings of at least 500 lb (227 kg) of Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS per trip during the calendar year. Only one landing of bottomfish MUS or ECS per fishing trip to the Mau Zone will be counted toward the landing requirement.

(2) If the vessel for which the permit is registered for use fails to meet the landing requirement of paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the owner may apply to the Regional Administrator for a waiver of the landing requirement. Grounds for a waiver are limited to captain incapacitation, vessel breakdowns, and the loss of the vessel at sea if the event prevented the vessel from meeting the landing requirement. Unprofitability is not sufficient for waiver of the landing requirement.

(3) Failure of the permit holder to register a vessel for use under the permit does not exempt a permit holder from the requirements specified in this paragraph.

(k) Appeals of permit actions.

(1) Except as provided in subpart A of 15 CFR part 904, any applicant for a permit or a permit holder may appeal the granting, denial, or revocation of his or her permit to the Regional Administrator.

(2) In order to be considered by the Regional Administrator, such appeal must be in writing, must state the action appealed, and the reasons therefore, and must be submitted within 30 days of the appealed action. The appellant may request an informal hearing on the appeal.

(3) The Regional Administrator, in consultation with the Council, will decide the appeal in accordance with the FEP and implementing regulations and based upon information relative to the application on file at NMFS and the Council, the summary record kept of any hearing, the hearing officer's recommended decision, if any, and any other relevant information.

(4) If a hearing is requested, or if the Regional Administrator determines that one is appropriate, the Regional Administrator may grant an informal hearing before a hearing officer designated for that purpose. The applicant or permit holder may appear personally and/or be represented by counsel at the hearing and submit information and present arguments as determined appropriate by the hearing officer. Within 30 days of the last day of the hearing, the hearing officer shall recommend in writing a decision to the Regional Administrator.

(5) The Regional Administrator may adopt the hearing officer's recommended decision, in whole or in part, or may reject or modify it. The Regional Administrator's decision on the application is the final administrative decision of the Department of Commerce, and is effective on the date the Administrator signs the decision.
