
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### § 665.204 Prohibitions.

In addition to the general prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter and § 665.15, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Fish for Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS, or seamount groundfish MUS using gear prohibited under § 665.206.

(b) Fish for, or retain on board a vessel, Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS in the Ho'omalu Zone or the Mau Zone without the appropriate permit registered for use with that vessel issued under § 665.13.

(c) Serve as primary operator or relief operator on a vessel with a Mau or Ho'omalu Zone permit without completing a protected species workshop conducted by NMFS, as required by § 665.203.

(d) Fail to notify the USCG at least 24 hours prior to making any landing of bottomfish taken in the Ho'omalu Zone, as required by § 665.205.

(e) Fish within any protected species study zone in the NWHI without notifying the Regional Administrator of the intent to fish in these zones, as required under § 664.205.

(f) Falsify or fail to make or file reports of all fishing activities shoreward of the outer boundary of the MHI management subarea, in violation of § 665.14(a) or (b).

(g) Own a vessel or fish from a vessel that is used to fish non-commercially for any Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS in the MHI management subarea without either a MHI non-commercial bottomfish permit or a State of Hawaii Commercial Marine License, in violation of § 665.2 or § 665.203(a)(2).

(h) Fish for or possess any bottomfish MUS as defined in § 665.201, in the MHI management subarea after a closure of its respective fishery, in violation of § 665.211.

(i) Sell or offer for sale any bottomfish MUS as defined in § 665.201, after a closure of its respective fishery, in violation of § 665.211.

(j) Harvest, possess, or land more than a total of five fish (all species combined) identified as Deep 7 bottomfish in § 665.201 from a vessel in the MHI management subarea, while holding a MHI non-commercial bottomfish permit, or while participating as a charter boat customer, in violation of § 665.212.

(k) Fish for or possess any Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS, or seamount groundfish MUS in the Hancock Seamounts Ecosystem Management Area, in violation of § 665.209.
