
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### § 665.203 Permits.
###### Submission.

(b)(1) An application for a permit required under this section must be submitted to PIRO as described in § 665.13.

(2) Ho'omalu Zone limited access permit. In addition to an application under § 665.13(c), each applicant for a Ho'omalu Zone permit must also submit a supplementary information sheet provided by PIRO, which must be signed by the vessel owner or a designee and include the following information:

(i) The qualification criterion that the applicant believes he or she meets for issuance of a limited access permit;

(ii) A copy of landings receipts or other documentation, with a certification from a state or Federal agency that this information is accurate, to demonstrate participation in the NWHI bottomfish fishery; and

(iii) If the application is filed by a partnership or corporation, the names of each of the individual partners or shareholders and their respective percentages of ownership of the partnership or corporation.

(3) Mau Zone limited access permit. PIRO will not accept applications for a new Mau Zone permit after June 14, 1999. In addition to an application under § 665.13(c), each applicant for a Mau Zone permit must also submit a supplementary information sheet provided by PIRO, which must be signed by the vessel owner or a designee and include the following information:

(i) The qualification criterion that the applicant believes he or she meets for issuance of a limited access permit;

(ii) Copy of State of Hawaii catch report(s) to demonstrate that the permitted vessel had made qualifying landings of bottomfish from the Mau Zone; and

(iii) If the application is filed by a partnership or corporation, the names of each of the individual partners or shareholders and their respective percentage of ownership of the partnership or corporation.

(c) Sale or transfer of Ho'omalu limited access permits to new vessel owners.

(1) A Ho'omalu zone permit may not be sold or otherwise transferred to a new owner.

(2) A Ho'omalu zone permit or permits may be held by a partnership or corporation. If 50 percent or more of the ownership of the vessel passes to persons other than those listed in the original application, the permit will lapse and must be surrendered to the Regional Administrator.

(d) Transfer of Ho'omalu Zone limited access permits to replacement vessels.

(1) Upon application by the owner of a permitted vessel, the Regional Administrator will transfer that owner's permit to a replacement vessel owned by that owner, provided that the replacement vessel does not exceed 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA. The replacement vessel must be put into service no later than 12 months after the owner applies for the transfer, or the transfer shall be void.

(2) An owner of a permitted vessel may apply to the Regional Administrator for transfer of that owner's permit to a replacement vessel greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA. The Regional Administrator may transfer the permit upon determining, after consultation with the Council and considering the objectives of the limited access program, that the replacement vessel has catching power that is comparable to the rest of the vessels holding permits for the fishery, or has catching power that does not exceed that of the original vessel, and that the transfer is not inconsistent with the objectives of the program. The Regional Administrator shall consider vessel length, range, hold capacity, gear limitations, and other appropriate factors in making determinations of catching power equivalency and comparability of the catching power of vessels in the fishery.

(e) Ho'omalu Zone limited access permit renewal.

(1) A qualifying landing for Ho'omalu Zone permit renewal is a landing of at least 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) of Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS from the Ho'omalu Zone or a landing of at least 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) of fish from the Ho'omalu Zone, of which at least 50 percent by weight was Hawaii bottomfish MUS or ECS. A permit is eligible for renewal for the next calendar year if the vessel covered by the permit made three or more qualifying landings during the current calendar year.

(2) The owner of a permitted vessel that did not make three or more qualifying landings of bottomfish in a year may apply to the Regional Administrator for a waiver of the landing requirement. If the Regional Administrator finds that failure to make three landings was due to circumstances beyond the owner's control, the Regional Administrator may renew the permit. A waiver may not be granted if the failure to make three landings was due to general economic conditions or market conditions, such that the vessel operations would not be profitable.

(f) Issuance of new Ho'omalu Zone limited access permits. The Regional Administrator may issue new Ho'omalu Zone limited access permits under § 665.13 if the Regional Administrator determines, in consultation with the Council, that bottomfish stocks in the Ho'omalu Zone are able to support additional fishing effort.

(g) Eligibility for new Ho'omalu Zone limited access permits. When the Regional Administrator has determined that new permits may be issued, they shall be issued to applicants based upon eligibility, determined as follows:
