
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### ยง 665.211 Annual Catch Limits (ACL) and Annual Catch Targets (ACT).

(a) In accordance with ยง 665.4, the ACLs and ACTs for MHI bottomfish fisheries for each fishing year are as follows:

(b) When a bottomfish ACL or ACT is projected to be reached based on analyses of available information, the Regional Administrator shall publish a document to that effect in theand shall use other means to notify permit holders. The document will include an advisement that the fishery will be closed beginning at a specified date, which is not earlier than seven days after the date of filing the closure notice for public inspection at the Office of the Federal Register, until the end of the fishing year in which the ACL or ACT is reached.

(c) On and after the date specified in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may fish for or possess any bottomfish MUS from a closed fishery in the MHI management subarea, except as otherwise allowed in this section.

(d) On and after the date specified in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may sell or offer for sale any bottomfish MUS from a closed fishery, except as otherwise authorized by law.

(e) If landings of MHI Deep 7 bottomfish exceed the specified ACL in a fishing year, the Regional Administrator will reduce the ACL for the subsequent year by the amount of the overage in a separate rulemaking.

(f) If the average total landings of uku in the most recent three years exceed the specified ACL in a fishing year, the Regional Administrator will reduce the uku ACL and ACT for the subsequent year by the amount of the overage in a separate rulemaking.

(g) Fishing for, and the resultant possession or sale of, any bottomfish MUS by vessels legally registered to Mau Zone, Ho'omalu Zone, or PRIA bottomfish fishing permits and conducted in compliance with all other laws and regulations, is exempted from this section.
