
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### § 665.207 At-sea observer coverage.

(a) All fishing vessels subject to §§ 665.200 though 665.212 must carry an observer when directed to do so by the Regional Administrator.

(b) PIRO will advise the vessel owner or operator of any observer requirement within 72 hours (not including weekends or holidays) of receipt of the notice provided pursuant to § 665.205(a). If an observer is required, the owner or operator will be informed of the terms and conditions of observer coverage, and the time and place of embarkation of the observer.

(c) All observers must be provided with sleeping, toilet, and eating accommodations at least equal to that provided to a full crew member. A mattress or futon on the floor, or a cot, is not acceptable in place of a regular bunk. Meal and other galley privileges must be the same for the observer as for other crew members.

(d) Female observers on a vessel with an all-male crew must be accommodated either in a single-person cabin or, if reasonable privacy can be ensured by installing a curtain or other temporary divider, in a two-person cabin shared with a licensed officer of the vessel. If the cabin assigned to a female observer does not have its own toilet and shower facilities that can be provided for the exclusive use of the observer, then a schedule for time-sharing of common facilities must be established and approved by the Regional Administrator prior to the vessel's departure from port.
