
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### ยง 665.245 Gear restrictions.
###### Permit Area 1.

(a)(1) Lobsters may be taken only with lobster traps or by hand. Lobsters may not be taken by means of poisons, drugs, other chemicals, spears, nets, hook, or explosives.

(2) The smallest opening of an entry way of any lobster trap may not allow any sphere or cylinder greater than 6.5 inches (16.5 cm) in diameter to pass from outside the trap to inside the trap.

(3) Each lobster trap must have a minimum of two escape vent panels that meet the following requirements:

(i) Panels must have at least four unobstructed circular holes no smaller than 67 mm in diameter, with centers at least 82 mm apart.

(ii) The lowest part of any opening in an escape vent panel must not be more than 85 mm above the floor of the trap.

(iii) Panels must be placed opposite one another in each trap.

(4) A vessel fishing for or in possession of lobster in any permit area may not have on board the vessel any trap that does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.

(5) A maximum of 1,200 traps per vessel may be maintained on board or in the water, provided that no more than 1,100 assembled traps are maintained on board or in the water. If more than 1,100 traps are maintained, the unassembled traps may be carried as spares only, in order to replace assembled traps that may be lost or become unusable.

(6) Traps shall not be left unattended in any permit area, except in the event of an emergency, in which case the vessel operator must notify the SAC of the emergency that necessitated leaving the traps on the grounds, and the location and number of the traps, within 24 hours after the vessel reaches port.

(7) A vessel whose owner has a limited access permit issued under this subpart and has an operating VMS unit certified by NMFS may enter Crustacean Permit Area 1 with lobster traps on board on or after June 25, but must remain outside the Crustacean Permit Area 1 VMS Subarea until the NWHI lobster season opens on July 1.

(8) A vessel whose owner has a limited access permit issued under this subpart and has on board an operational VMS unit certified by NMFS may transit Crustacean Permit Area 1, including Crustacean Permit Area 1 VMS Subarea, with lobster traps on board for the purpose of moving to another lobster grounds or returning to port following the closure date, as specified in ยง 665.252, providing the vessel does not stop or fish and is making steady progress to another lobster grounds or back to port as determined by NMFS.

(9) The operator of a permitted vessel must notify the Regional Administrator or an authorized officer no later than June 15 of each year if the vessel will use a VMS unit in the fishery and allow for inspection and certification of the unit.

(b) Permit Area 2. Lobsters may be taken only with lobster traps or by hand. Lobsters may not be taken by means of poisons, drugs, other chemicals, spears, nets, hooks, or explosives.
