
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### ยง 665.242 Permits.
###### Issuance of limited access permits to future applicants.

(g)(1) The Regional Administrator may issue limited access permits under this section when fewer than 15 vessel owners hold active permits.

(2) When the Regional Administrator has determined that limited access permits may be issued to new persons, a notice shall be placed in theand other means will be used to notify prospective applicants of the opportunity to obtain permits under the limited access management program.

(3) A period of 90 days will be provided after publication of thenotice for submission of new applications for a limited access permit.

(4) Limited access permits issued under this paragraph (g) will be issued first to applicants qualifying under paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section. If the number of limited access permits available is greater than the number of applicants that qualify under paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, then limited access permits will be issued to applicants under paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) First priority to receive limited access permits under this paragraph (g) goes to owners of vessels that were used to land lobster from Permit Area 1 during the period 1983 through 1990, and who were excluded from the fishery by implementation of the limited access system. If there are insufficient permits for all such applicants, the new permits shall be issued by the Regional Administrator through a lottery.

(ii) Second priority to receive limited access permits under paragraph (g) goes to owners with the most points, based upon a point system. If two or more owners have the same number of points and there are insufficient permits for all such owners, the Regional Administrator shall issue the permits through a lottery. Under the point system, limited access permits will be issued, in descending order, beginning with owners who have the most points and proceeding to owners who have the least points, based on the following:

(A) Three points shall be assigned for each calendar year after August 8, 1985, that the applicant was the operator of a vessel that was used to land lobster from Permit Area 1.

(B) Two points shall be assigned for each calendar year or partial year after August 8, 1985, that the applicant was the owner, operator, or crew member of a vessel engaged in either commercial fishing in Permit Area 2 for lobster, or fishing in Permit Area 1 for fish other than lobster with an intention to sell all or part of the catch.

(C) One point shall be assigned for each calendar year or partial year after August 8, 1985, that the applicant was the owner, operator, or crew member of a vessel engaged in any other commercial fishing in the EEZ surrounding Hawaii.

(5) A holder of a new limited access permit must own at least a 50 percent share in the vessel that the permit would cover.
