
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart C - Hawaii Fisheries
##### ยง 665.252 Harvest limitation program.
###### Harvest guideline.

(b)(1) The Regional Administrator shall use information from daily lobster catch reports and lobster sales reports from previous years, and may use information from research sampling and other sources to establish the annual harvest guideline in accordance with the FEP after consultation with the Council.

(2) NMFS shall publish a document indicating the annual harvest guideline in theby February 28 of each year and shall use other means to notify permit holders of the harvest guideline for the year.

(3) The Regional Administrator shall determine, on the basis of the information reported to NMFS by the operator of each vessel fishing, when the harvest guideline for each lobster ground will be reached.

(4) Notice of the date when the harvest guideline for a lobster ground is expected to be reached and specification of the closure date of the lobster grounds will be provided to each permit holder and/or operator of each permitted vessel at least 24 hours in advance of the closure. After a closure, the harvest of lobster in that lobster ground is prohibited, and the possession of lobster traps on board the vessel in that lobster ground is prohibited unless allowed under ยง 665.245(a)(8).

(5) With respect to the notification in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, NMFS shall provide each permit holder and operator of each permitted vessel with the following information, as appropriate:

(i) Determination of when the overall harvest guideline for Crustacean Permit Area 1 will be reached;

(ii) Closure date after which harvest of lobster or possession of lobster traps on board the vessel in a lobster grounds is prohibited;

(iii) Closure date after which the possession of lobster traps on board the vessel in Crustacean Permit Area 1 is prohibited by any permitted vessel that is not operating a VMS unit certified by NMFS; and

(iv) Specification of when further landings of lobster will be prohibited by permitted vessels not carrying an operational VMS unit, certified by NMFS, on board.
