
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart D - Mariana Archipelago Fisheries
##### § 665.405 Prohibitions.

In addition to the general prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter and § 665.15, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Fish for Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS using gear prohibited under § 665.406.

(b) Use a large vessel that does not have a valid Guam bottomfish permit registered for use with that vessel to fish for, land, or transship Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS shoreward of the outer boundary of the Guam management subarea of the bottomfish fishery management area in violation of § 665.404(a).

(c) Use a large vessel to fish for Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS within the Guam large vessel bottomfish prohibited area, as defined in § 665.403(a).

(d) Land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the Guam management subarea of the bottomfish fishery management area, Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS that were harvested in violation of § 665.405(c).

(e) Use a vessel to fish commercially for Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS in the CNMI management subarea without a valid CNMI commercial bottomfish permit registered for use with that vessel, in violation of § 665.404(a)(2).

(f) Falsify or fail to make, keep, maintain, or submit a Federal logbook as required under § 665.14(b) when using a vessel to engage in commercial fishing for Mariana bottomfish MUS or ECS in the CNMI management subarea in violation of § 665.14(b).

(g) Fish for or possess any Mariana Bottomfish MUS as defined in § 665.401 in the Guam Management Subarea after a closure of the fishery in violation of § 665.409(d).

(h) Sell or offer for sale any Mariana Bottomfish MUS as defined in § 665.401 in the Guam Management Subarea after a closure of the fishery in violation of § 665.409(e).
