
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart E - Pacific Remote Island Area Fisheries
##### § 665.663 Prohibitions.

In addition to the general prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter and in § 665.15, it is unlawful for any person to:

(a) Use any vessel to fish for, take, retain, possess or land PRIA precious coral MUS in any precious coral permit area, unless a permit has been issued for that vessel and area as specified in § 665.13 and that permit is on board the vessel.

(b) Fish for, take, or retain any species of PRIA precious coral MUS in any precious coral permit area:

(1) By means of gear or methods prohibited by § 665.664.

(2) In refugia specified in § 665.661.

(3) In a bed for which the quota specified in § 665.667 has been attained.

(4) In violation of any permit issued under §§ 665.13 or 665.17.

(5) In a bed that has been closed pursuant to §§ 665.666 or 665.669.

(c) Take and retain, possess, or land any live pink coral or live black coral from any precious coral permit area that is less than the minimum height specified in § 665.665 unless:

(1) A valid EFP was issued under § 665.17 for the vessel and the vessel was operating under the terms of the permit; or

(2) The coral originated outside coral beds listed in this paragraph, and this can be demonstrated through receipts of purchase, invoices, or other documentation.
