
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart F - Western Pacific Pelagic Fisheries
##### § 665.801 Permits.

(a) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid permit under the High Seas Fishing Compliance Act if that vessel is used to fish on the high seas, as required under § 300.15 of this title.

(b) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit if that vessel is used:

(1) To fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago; or

(2) To land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago, western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.

(c) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit, in accordance with § 665.816, if that vessel is used to:

(1) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa;

(2) Land shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa; or

(3) Transship shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa or on the high seas.

(d) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit, or Hawaii longline limited access permit if that vessel is used to:

(1) Fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear in the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll); or

(2) Land or transship shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll), western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.

(e) A receiving vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid receiving vessel permit if that vessel is used to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, Hawaii, Guam, CNMI, or PRIA, western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear.

(f) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use with a valid PRIA pelagic troll and handline fishing permit if that vessel is used to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using pelagic handline or trolling fishing methods in the EEZ around the PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll).

(g) A vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Western Pacific squid jig fishing permit, if that vessel is more than 50 ft (15.4 m) LOA and is used to squid jig fish in EEZ waters around American Samoa, CNMI, Guam, Hawaii, or PRIA.

(h) Any required permit must be valid and on board the vessel and available for inspection by an authorized agent, except that, if the permit was issued (or registered to the vessel) during the fishing trip in question, this requirement applies only after the start of any subsequent fishing trip.

(i) A permit is valid only for the vessel for which it is registered. A permit not registered for use with a particular vessel may not be used.

(j) An application for a permit required under this section will be submitted to PIRO as described in § 665.13.

(k) General requirements governing application information, issuance, fees, expiration, replacement, transfer, alteration, display, and sanctions for permits issued under this section, as applicable, are contained in § 665.13.

(l) A Hawaii longline limited access permit may be transferred as follows:

(1) The owner of a Hawaii longline limited access permit may apply to transfer the permit:

(i) To a different person for registration for use with the same or another vessel; or

(ii) For registration for use with another U.S. vessel under the same ownership.
