
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart F - Western Pacific Pelagic Fisheries
##### § 665.802 Prohibitions.

In addition to the prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Falsify or fail to make and/or file all reports of western Pacific pelagic MUS landings, containing all data and in the exact manner, as required by applicable state law or regulation, as specified in § 665.14(a), provided that the person is required to do so by applicable state law or regulation.

(b) Use a vessel without a valid permit issued under the High Seas Fishing Compliance Act to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, on the high seas, in violation of §§ 665.801(a), and 300.15 of this title.

(c) Use a vessel in the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago without a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(b)(1).

(d) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around the Hawaiian Archipelago without a valid Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested with longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(b)(2).

(e) Use a vessel in the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(c)(1).

(f) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land western Pacific pelagic MUS that were caught with longline gear within the EEZ around American Samoa, in violation of § 665.801(c)(2).

(g) Use a vessel within the EEZ around American Samoa without a valid American Samoa longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were caught with longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(c)(3).

(h) Use a vessel in the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll) without either a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit or a Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(d)(1).

(i) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Guam, CNMI, or PRIA (with the exception of Midway Atoll) without either a valid Western Pacific general longline permit, American Samoa longline limited access permit or a Hawaii longline limited access permit registered for use with that vessel, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS that were harvested using longline gear, in violation of § 665.801(d)(2).

(j) Use a vessel shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, CNMI, Guam, Hawaii, or PRIA, to land or transship western Pacific pelagic MUS caught by other vessels using longline gear, without a valid receiving vessel permit registered for use with that vessel, in violation of § 665.801(e).

(k) Use a vessel in the EEZ around the PRIA employing handline or trolling methods to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS without a valid PRIA pelagic troll and handline fishing permit registered for use for that vessel, in violation of § 665.801(f).

(l) Fish in the fishery after failing to comply with the notification requirements in § 665.803.

(m) Fail to comply with notification requirements set forth in § 665.803 or in any EFP issued under § 665.17.

(n) Fail to comply with a term or condition governing longline gear configuration in § 665.813(k) if using a vessel longer than 40 ft (12.2 m) registered for use with any valid longline permit issued pursuant to § 665.801 to fish for western Pacific pelagic MUS using longline gear south of the Equator (0&#xB0; lat.).

(o) Use a fishing vessel to retain on board, transship, or land pelagic MUS captured by longline gear in the WCPFC Convention Area, as defined in § 300.211 of this title, in violation of any restriction announced in accordance with § 665.819(d)(2).
