
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart F - Western Pacific Pelagic Fisheries
##### § 665.802 Prohibitions.
###### Reserved

(ll) []

(mm) Fail to use a line setting machine or line shooter, with weighted branch lines, to set the main longline when operating a vessel that is registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit and equipped with monofilament main longline, when making deep sets north of 23&#xB0; N. lat., in violation of § 665.815(a)(1) or (a)(2).

(nn) Fail to employ basket-style longline gear such that the mainline is deployed slack when operating a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access north of 23&#xB0; N. lat., in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(v).

(oo) Fail to maintain and use blue dye to prepare thawed bait when operating a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit that is fishing north of 23&#xB0; N. lat., in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(vi) through (viii).

(pp) Fail to retain, handle, and discharge fish, fish parts, and spent bait, strategically when operating a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit that is fishing north of 23&#xB0; N. lat., in violation of § 665.815(a)(2)(i) through (iv).

(qq) Fail to be begin the deployment of longline gear at least 1 hour after local sunset or fail to complete the setting process before local sunrise from a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit while shallow-setting north of 23&#xB0; N. lat., in violation of § 665.815(a)(4).

(rr) Fail to handle short-tailed albatrosses that are caught by pelagic longline gear in a manner that maximizes the probability of their long-term survival, in violation of § 665.815(b).

(ss) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit after the shallow-set longline fishery has been closed, or upon notice that that the vessel is restricted from fishing, in violation of § 665.813(b) and (i).

(tt) Fail to immediately retrieve longline fishing gear upon notice that the shallow-set longline fishery has been closed, or upon notice that that the vessel is restricted from fishing, in violation of § 665.813(b).
