
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 665 - FISHERIES IN THE WESTERN PACIFIC
#### Subpart F - Western Pacific Pelagic Fisheries
##### § 665.802 Prohibitions.
###### Reserved

(aa)-(bb) []

(cc) Own or operate a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 while engaged in longline fishing for western Pacific pelagic MUS and fail to be certified for completion of a NMFS protected species workshop, in violation of § 665.814(a).

(dd) Own or operate a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 while engaged in longline fishing for western Pacific pelagic MUS without having on board a valid protected species workshop certificate issued by NMFS or a legible copy thereof, in violation of § 665.814(d).

(ee) Possess light sticks on board a vessel registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited access permit at any time during a trip for which notification to NMFS under § 665.803(a) indicated that deep-setting would be done, in violation of § 665.813(d).

(ff) Fail to carry, or fail to use, a line clipper, dip net, or dehooker on a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801, in violation of § 665.812.

(gg) Use or have on board longline gear with metal wire line within 1 meter of the hook when operating a vessel registered for use under a longline permit issued under § 665.801(b) at any time during a trip for which notification to NMFS under § 665.803(a) indicated that deep-setting would be done, in violation of § 665.813(d).

(hh) Fail to handle and release an oceanic whitetip shark in accordance with the requirements set forth at § 665.811(a) when operating a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801, in violation of § 665.811.

(ii) When operating a vessel registered for use under any longline limited access permit issued under § 665.801, fail to comply with the sea turtle handling, resuscitation, and release requirements, in violation of § 665.812(b).

(jj) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 north of the Equator (0&#xB0; lat.) with hooks other than circle hooks sized 18/0 or larger with an offset not to exceed 10 degrees, in violation of § 665.813(f).

(kk) Engage in shallow-setting from a vessel registered for use under any longline permit issued under § 665.801 north of the Equator (0&#xB0; lat.) with bait other than mackerel-type bait, in violation of § 665.813(g).
