
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.2 Definitions.
###### Area endorsement

means (for purposes of groundfish LLP) a designation on a license that authorizes a license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the designated area, subarea, or district. Area endorsements, which are inclusive of, but not necessarily the same as, management areas, subareas, or districts defined in this part, are as follows:

(1) Aleutian Islands area endorsement. Authorizes the license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the Aleutian Islands Subarea;

(2) Bering Sea area endorsement. Authorizes the license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the Bering Sea Subarea;

(3) Central Gulf area endorsement. Authorizes the license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the Central GOA regulatory area and the West Yakutat District;

(4) Southeast Outside area endorsement. Authorizes the license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the Southeast Outside District; and

(5) Western Gulf area endorsement. Authorizes the license holder to deploy a vessel to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish in the Western GOA regulatory area.
