
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.2 Definitions.
###### With respect to the groundfish and crab species license limitation program,

(2)the LOA of the vessel on June 24, 1992, unless the vessel was less than 125 ft (38.1 m) on June 24, 1992, then 1.2 times the LOA of the vessel on June 24, 1992, or 125 ft (38.1 m), whichever is less. However, if the vessel was under reconstruction on June 24, 1992, then the basis for the MLOA will be the LOA of the vessel on the date that reconstruction was completed and not June 24, 1992. The following exceptions apply regardless of how the MLOA was determined.

(i) If the vessel's LOA on June 17, 1995, was less than 60 ft (18.3 m), or if the vessel was under reconstruction on June 17, 1995, and the vessel's LOA on the date that reconstruction was completed was less than 60 ft (18.3 m), then the vessel's MLOA cannot exceed 59 ft (18 m).

(ii) If the vessel's LOA on June 17, 1995, was greater than or equal to 60 ft (18.3 m) but less than 125 ft (38.1 m), or if the vessel was under reconstruction on June 17, 1995, and the vessel's LOA on the date that reconstruction was completed was greater than or equal to 60 ft (18.3 m) but less 125 ft (38.1 m), then the vessel's MLOA cannot exceed 124 ft (37.8 m).

(iii) If the vessel's LOA on June 17, 1995, was 125 ft (38.1 m) or greater, then the vessel's MLOA is the vessel's LOA on June 17, 1995, or if the vessel was under reconstruction on June 17, 1995, and the vessel's LOA on the date that reconstruction was completed was 125 ft (38.1 m) or greater, then the vessel's MLOA is the vessel's LOA on the date reconstruction was completed.

(iv) The MLOA of an Amendment 80 LLP license or Amendment 80 LLP/QS license will be permanently changed to 295 ft. (89.9 m) when an Amendment 80 replacement vessel is listed on the license following the approval of a license transfer application described at ยง 679.4(k)(7).

(v) The MLOA of a groundfish LLP license endorsed to catch and process Pacific cod with hook-and-line gear in the BS or AI, or both, and is designated in Column B of Table 9 to this part is 220 feet (67 m).

(vi) An AFA vessel is exempt from the MLOA on an LLP license with a Bering Sea area endorsement or an Aleutian Islands area endorsement when the vessel is used in the BSAI to harvest or process license limitation groundfish and the LLP license specifies an exemption from the MLOA restriction for the AFA vessel.
