
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.4 Permits.
###### Other provisions.

(8)(i) Any person committing, or a fishing vessel used in the commission of, a violation of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act or any regulations issued pursuant thereto, is subject to the civil and criminal penalty provisions and the civil forfeiture provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, part 621 of this chapter, 15 CFR part 904 (Civil Procedure), and other applicable law. Penalties include, but are not limited to, permanent or temporary sanctions to licenses.

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of the license limitation program in this part, vessels fishing for species other than license limitation groundfish as defined in ยง 679.2 that were authorized under Federal regulations to incidentally catch license limitation groundfish without a Federal fisheries permit described at ยง 679.4(b) will continue to be authorized to catch the maximum retainable bycatch amounts of license limitation groundfish as provided in this part without a groundfish license.

(iii) An eligible applicant, who qualifies for a groundfish license or crab species license but whose vessel on which the eligible applicant's qualification was based was lost or destroyed, will be issued a license. This license:

(A) Will have the vessel designation of the lost or destroyed vessel.

(B) Cannot be used to conduct directed fishing for license limitation groundfish or to conduct directed fishing for crab species on a vessel that has an LOA greater than the MLOA designated on the license.
