
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.4 Permits.
###### 3

() The holder of a groundfish LLP license in Column A of Table 53 that is not selected by the vessel owner will receive a notice, using the address on record at the time the notification is sent, informing the holder that the groundfish LLP license was not selected by the vessel owner, will not be credited with a legal trip target landing, and will not receive a BSAI TLAS yellowfin sole endorsement. The notice will inform the holder of the groundfish LLP license of the timing and process through which the holder can provide additional information or evidence to amend or challenge the information in the official record of this section as specified in paragraphs (k)(14)(vi)(D) and (E) of this section.

(C) NMFS will issue to the holder of a groundfish LLP license with a Bering Sea trawl designation and that is not listed in either Table 52 or 53 a notice informing that holder that the groundfish LLP license is not eligible to be credited with a legal trip target landing or receive a BSAI TLAS yellowfin sole directed fishery endorsement based on the official record, using the address on record at the time the notification is sent. The notice will inform the holder of the groundfish LLP license of the timing and process through which the holder can provide additional information or evidence to amend or challenge the information in the official record of this section, as specified in paragraphs (k)(14)(vi)(D) and (E) of this section.

(D) The Regional Administrator will specify by letter a 30-day evidentiary period during which an applicant may provide additional information or evidence to amend or challenge the information in the official record. A person will be limited to one 30-day evidentiary period. Additional information or evidence received after the 30-day evidentiary period specified in the letter has expired will not be considered for purposes of the initial administrative determination (IAD).

(E) The Regional Administrator will prepare and send an IAD to the applicant following the expiration of the 30-day evidentiary period, if the Regional Administrator determines that the information or evidence provided by the person fails to support the person's claims and is insufficient to rebut the presumption that the official record is correct, or if the additional information, evidence, or revised application is not provided within the time period specified in the letter that notifies the applicant of his or her 30-day evidentiary period. The IAD will indicate the deficiencies with the information or evidence submitted. The IAD will also indicate which claims cannot be approved based on the available information or evidence. A person who receives an IAD may appeal pursuant to 15 CFR part 906. NMFS will issue a non-transferable interim license that is effective until final agency action on the IAD to an applicant who avails himself or herself of the opportunity to appeal an IAD and who has a credible claim to eligibility for a BSAI TLAS yellowfin sole endorsement.
