
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.6 Exempted fisheries.
###### Application.

(b)An applicant for an exempted fishing permit shall submit to the Regional Administrator, at least 60 days before the desired effective date of the exempted fishing permit, a written application including, but not limited to, the following information:

(1) The date of the application.

(2) The applicant's name, mailing address, and telephone number.

(3) A statement of the purpose and goal of the experiment for which an exempted fishing permit is needed, including a general description of the arrangements for disposition of all species harvested under the exempted fishing permit.

(4) Technical details about the experiment, including:

(i) Amounts of each species to be harvested that are necessary to conduct the experiment, and arrangement for disposition of all species taken.

(ii) Area and timing of the experiment.

(iii) Vessel and gear to be used.

(iv) Experimental design (e.g., sampling procedures, the data and samples to be collected, and analysis of the data and samples).

(v) Provision for public release of all obtained information, and submission of interim and final reports.

(5) The willingness of the applicant to carry observers, if required by the Regional Administrator, and a description of accommodations and work space for the observer(s).

(6) Details for all coordinating parties engaged in the experiment and signatures of all representatives of all principal parties.

(7) Information about each vessel to be covered by the exempted fishing permit, including:

(i) Vessel name.

(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of owner and master.

(iii) USCG documentation, state license, or registration number.

(iv) Home port.

(v) Length of vessel.

(vi) Net tonnage.

(vii) Gross tonnage.

(8) The signature of the applicant.

(9) The Regional Administrator may request from an applicant additional information necessary to make the determinations required under this section. Any application that does not include all necessary information will be considered incomplete. An incomplete application will not be considered to be complete until the necessary information is provided in writing. An applicant for an exempted fishing permit need not be the owner or operator of the vessel(s) for which the exempted fishing permit is requested.
