
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.6 Exempted fisheries.
###### Notifying the applicant.

(d)(1) The decision of the Regional Administrator, after consulting with the Council, to grant or deny an exempted fishing permit is the final action of the agency. The Regional Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the decision to grant or deny the exempted fishing permit and, if denied, the reasons for the denial, including:

(i) The applicant has failed to disclose material information required, or has made false statements as to any material fact, in connection with the application.

(ii) According to the best scientific information available, the harvest to be conducted under the permit would detrimentally affect living marine resources, including marine mammals and birds, and their habitat in a significant way.

(iii) Activities to be conducted under the exempted fishing permit would be inconsistent with the intent of this section or the management objectives of the FMP.

(iv) The applicant has failed to demonstrate a valid justification for the permit.

(v) The activity proposed under the exempted fishing permit could create a significant enforcement problem.

(vi) The applicant failed to make available to the public information that had been obtained under a previously issued exempted fishing permit.

(vii) The proposed activity had economic allocation as its sole purpose.

(2) In the event a permit is denied on the basis of incomplete information or design flaws, the applicant will be provided an opportunity to resubmit the application, unless a permit is denied because exempted fishing would detrimentally affect marine resources, be inconsistent with the management objectives of the FMP, create significant enforcement problems, or have economic allocation as its sole purpose.
