
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 679.7 Prohibitions.
###### Inshore/offshore.

(7)(i) Operate a vessel in the "inshore component in the GOA" as defined in § 679.2 without a valid Inshore Processing endorsement on the vessel's FFP or FPP.

(ii) Operate a vessel as a "stationary floating processor" in the "inshore component in the GOA" as defined in § 679.2, and as a catcher/processor in the BSAI during the same fishing year.

(iii) Operate a vessel as a "stationary floating processor" in the "inshore component in the GOA" as defined in § 679.2, and as an AFA mothership in the BSAI during the same fishing year.

(iv) Operate any vessel in the GOA in more than one of the three categories included in the definition of "inshore component in the GOA," in §§ 679.2, during any fishing year.

(v) Operate any vessel in the GOA under both the "inshore component in the GOA" and the "offshore component in the GOA" definitions in §§ 679.2 during the same fishing year.

(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(3)(iv) of this section, use a stationary floating processor with a GOA inshore processing endorsement to process pollock harvested in the GOA or Pacific cod harvested in the Eastern GOA in a directed fishery for those species in more than one single geographic location in the GOA during a fishing year.

(vii) Operate a vessel in the "inshore component of the GOA" as defined in § 679.2 during a calendar year if that vessel is used to directed fish for Pacific cod under the authority of a groundfish license with a Pacific cod endorsement in the regulatory area listed in Table 49 to part 679.

(viii) Use a vessel operating under the authority of a groundfish license with a Pacific cod endorsement to directed fish for Pacific cod in the Eastern GOA apportioned to the inshore component of the GOA as specified under § 679.20(a)(6) if that vessel has directed fished for Pacific cod in the Eastern GOA apportioned to the offshore component of the Eastern GOA during that calendar year.

(ix) Use a vessel operating under the authority of a groundfish license with a Pacific cod endorsement to directed fish for Pacific cod in the Eastern GOA apportioned to the offshore component of the Eastern GOA as specified under § 679.20(a)(6) if that vessel has directed fished for Pacific cod in the Eastern GOA apportioned to the inshore component of the GOA during that calendar year.
