
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 679.7 Prohibitions.
###### Halibut Deck Sorting.

(e)(1) Conduct halibut deck sorting without notifying the observer at least 15 minutes prior to bringing fish onboard as described in § 679.120(e)(2).

(2) For any haul for which the notification at § 679.120(e)(2) is provided, allow fish to be spilled from the codend without an observer being present to monitor halibut deck sorting.

(3) Sort halibut from the catch prior to weighing except in compliance with requirements at § 679.120.

(4) Sort halibut on deck without an observer present to monitor halibut deck sorting.

(5) Discard halibut sorted on deck prior to the observer's completion of data collection for each halibut.

(6) Sort or discard any species other than halibut during halibut deck sorting.

(7) Conduct halibut deck sorting past the time limit set by NMFS in the vessel's Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report.

(8) Conduct halibut deck sorting without complying with the observer deck sampling station requirements at § 679.28(d)(9).

(9) Fail to have an approved Deck Safety Plan before conducting halibut deck sorting.

(10) Fail to notify the Observer Program for purposes of the pre-cruise meeting when required by § 679.120(c).

(11) Weigh catch on a NMFS-approved scale that complies with the requirements at § 679.28(b) when halibut deck sorting unless three or more observers are present on the vessel and an observer has been notified and is available to complete data collection duties in the factory.

(12) Sort halibut without a video monitoring system meeting requirements at § 679.28(l).

(13) Fail to comply with any other requirement or restriction specified in this part or violate any provision of this part.
