
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 679.7 Prohibitions.
###### Hired master, CDQ halibut.

(ii)Make a CDQ halibut landing without a CDQ hired master permit listing the name of the hired master.

(7) Possess on a vessel or land IFQ sablefish concurrently with non-IFQ sablefish, except that CDQ sablefish may be possessed on a vessel and landed concurrently with IFQ sablefish.

(8) Discard:

(i) In the GOA:

(A) [Reserved]

(B) Pacific cod that are taken when IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish are on board unless Pacific cod are required to be discarded under subpart B of this part, or Pacific cod are not authorized to be retained under subpart A of this part.

(ii) In the BSAI:

(A) [Reserved]

(B) Pacific cod that are taken when IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish are on board according to the following table:

(iii) In the waters within the State of Alaska:

(A) Rockfish that are taken when IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish are on board unless rockfish are required to be discarded by the laws of the State of Alaska.

(B) Pacific cod that are taken when IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish are on board unless Pacific cod are required to be discarded by the laws of the State of Alaska.

(9) Harvest on any vessel more IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish than are authorized under § 679.42.

(10) Make an IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut landing other than directly to (or by) a registered buyer.

(11) Discard halibut or sablefish caught with fixed gear from any catcher vessel when any IFQ permit holder aboard holds unused halibut or sablefish IFQ for that vessel category and the IFQ regulatory area in which the vessel is operating, unless:

(i) Discard of halibut is required as prescribed in the annual management measures published in thepursuant to § 300.62 of chapter III of this title;

(ii) Discard of sablefish is required under § 679.20 or, in waters within the State of Alaska, discard of sablefish is required under laws of the State of Alaska; or

(iii) Discard of halibut or sablefish is required under other provisions.

(12) Commence an IFQ landing without a Prior Notice of Landing (PNOL), before the date and time stated on the PNOL, or more than 2 hours after the date and time stated on the PNOL, except as provided in § 679.5(l)(1).

(13) [Reserved]

(14) Violate any other provision under this part.

(15) Hire a master to fish for IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish that is derived from QS held by a CQE.

(16) Process IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish onboard a vessel on which a person is using IFQ derived from QS held by a CQE.

(17) Deploy, conduct fishing with, or retrieve longline pot gear in the GOA before the start or after the end of the IFQ sablefish fishing period specified in § 679.23(g)(1).

(18) Deploy, conduct fishing with, retrieve, or retain IFQ sablefish or IFQ halibut from longline pot gear in the GOA:

(i) In excess of the pot limits specified in § 679.42(l)(5)(ii); or

(ii) [Reserved]

(19) [Reserved]

(20) Deploy longline pot gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the GOA without marking the gear in accordance with § 679.24(a).

(21) Fail to redeploy or remove from the fishing grounds all deployed longline pot gear that is assigned to, and used by, a catcher vessel within five days of deploying the gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the Southeast Outside District of the GOA in accordance with § 679.42(l)(5)(iii)(A).

(22) Fail to redeploy or remove from the fishing grounds all deployed longline pot gear that is assigned to, and used by, a catcher/processor within five days of deploying the gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the Southeast Outside District of the GOA in accordance with § 679.42(l)(5)(iii)(B).

(23) Fail to redeploy or remove from the fishing grounds all deployed longline pot gear that is assigned to, and used by, a catcher vessel or a catcher/processor within five days of deploying the gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the West Yakutat District of the GOA, and within seven days of deploying the gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the Central GOA regulatory area, in accordance with § 679.42(l)(5)(iii)(C) and (E).

(24) Fail to redeploy or remove from the fishing grounds all deployed longline pot gear that is assigned to, and used by, a catcher vessel or a catcher/processor within seven days of deploying the gear to fish IFQ sablefish in the Western GOA regulatory area in accordance with § 679.42(l)(5)(iii)(D).

(25) Operate a catcher vessel or a catcher/processor using longline pot gear to fish IFQ sablefish or IFQ halibut in the GOA and fail to use functioning VMS equipment as required in § 679.42(k)(2).

(26) Operate a catcher vessel or a catcher/processor using pot gear to fish for IFQ or CDQ halibut or IFQ or CDQ sablefish in the BSAI and fail to use functioning VMS equipment as required in § 679.42(m).
