
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 679.7 Prohibitions.
###### Rockfish cooperatives.

(6)(i) Fail to retain any rockfish primary species or rockfish secondary species caught by a vessel when that vessel is fishing under the authority of a CQ permit.

(ii) Harvest rockfish primary species, rockfish secondary species, or use halibut PSC assigned to a rockfish cooperative in the Central GOA without a valid CQ permit.

(iii) Begin a fishing trip for any Rockfish Program species with any vessel assigned to a rockfish cooperative if the total amount of unharvested CQ that is currently held by that rockfish cooperative is zero or less for any species for which CQ is assigned.

(iv) Exceed a rockfish sideboard limit assigned to a rockfish cooperative in the catcher/processor sector.

(v) Operate a vessel assigned to a rockfish cooperative to fish under a CQ permit unless the rockfish cooperative has notified NMFS that the vessel is fishing under a CQ permit as described under ยง 679.5(r)(8).

(vi) Operate a vessel fishing under the authority of a CQ permit in the catcher vessel sector and to have any Pacific ocean perch, pelagic shelf rockfish, northern rockfish, sablefish, Pacific cod, or thornyhead rockfish aboard the vessel unless those fish were harvested under the authority of a CQ permit.

(vii) Catch and process onboard a vessel any rockfish primary species or rockfish secondary species harvested under the authority of a CQ permit issued to the catcher vessel sector.

(viii) Have a negative balance in a CQ account for any species for which CQ is assigned after the end of the calendar year for which a CQ permit was issued.

(ix) Deliver rockfish primary species and rockfish secondary species harvested under the authority of a CQ permit to any processor other than a shoreside processor located within the geographic boundaries of the City of Kodiak as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska on December 27, 2011.

(x) Fail to submit a timely and complete rockfish CQ cost recovery fee submission form as required under ยง 679.5(r)(9).
