
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.20 General limitations.
###### Application.

(3)(i) For catcher vessels, the maximum retainable amount for vessels fishing during a fishing trip in areas closed to directed fishing is the lowest maximum retainable amount applicable in any area, and this maximum retainable amount must be applied at any time and to all areas for the duration of the fishing trip.

(ii) For catcher/processors fishing in an area closed to directed fishing for a species or species group, the maximum retainable amount for that species or species group applies at any time for the duration of the fishing trip.

(iii) For all vessels not listed in subpart F of this section, the maximum retainable amount for pollock harvested in the BSAI is calculated at the end of each offload and is based on the basis species harvested since the previous offload. For purposes of this paragraph, offload means the removal of any fish or fish product from the vessel that harvested the fish or fish product to any other vessel or to shore.

(iv) The maximum retainable amount for groundfish harvested in the Central GOA by a catcher/processor vessel fishing under a rockfish CQ permit is calculated at the end of each weekly reporting period, and is based on the basis species defined in Table 30 harvested since the previous weekly reporting period, or for any portion of a weekly reporting period that vessel was designated under a vessel check-in as specified in ยง 679.5(r)(8).

(v) For all vessels not listed in subpart F of this section, the maximum retainable amount for Atka mackerel harvested in the Bering Sea subarea is calculated at the end of each offload and is based on the basis species harvested since the previous offload. For purposes of this paragraph, offload means the removal of any fish or fish product from the vessel that harvested the fish or fish product to any other vessel or to shore.
