
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.26 Prohibited Species Donation Program.
###### Processing, handling, and distribution.

(d)(1) Processing and reprocessing of all fish retained under the PSD Program must be carried out under the direction of the authorized distributor. A processor retaining or receiving fish under the PSD Program, at a minimum, must head, gut, and freeze the fish in a manner that makes it fit for human consumption.

(2) Fish that are determined to be unfit for human consumption prior to delivery to an authorized distributor must be discarded under ยง 679.21(a). Fish that are determined to be unfit for human consumption after delivery to the authorized distributor must be destroyed in accordance with applicable sanitation laws and regulations.

(3) Authorized distributors and persons conducting activities supervised by authorized distributors may retain prohibited species only for the purpose of processing and delivering the prohibited species to hunger relief agencies, food networks or food distributors as provided by this section. Such persons may not consume or retain prohibited species for personal use and may not sell, trade or barter, or attempt to sell, trade or barter any prohibited species that is retained under the PSD program, except that processors may convert offal from salmon or halibut that has been retained pursuant to the PSD program into fish meal, fish oil, or bone meal, and sell or trade these products.

(4) No prohibited species that has been sorted from a vessel's catch or landing may be retained by a vessel or processor, or delivered to a delivery location under this section, unless the vessel or processor and delivery location is included on the list provided to the Regional Administrator under paragraph (b)(1)(xi), (b)(1)(xiii) or (b)(3)(v) of this section.
