
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.25 Inseason adjustments.
###### Procedure.

(c)(1) No inseason adjustment issued under this section will take effect until-

(i) NMFS has filed the proposed adjustment for public inspection with the Office of the Federal Register; and

(ii) NMFS has published the proposed adjustment in thefor public comment for a period of 30 days before it is made final, unless NMFS finds for good cause that such notification and public procedure is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest.

(2) If NMFS decides, for good cause, that an adjustment is to be made without affording a prior opportunity for public comment, public comments on the necessity for, and extent of, the adjustment will be received by the Regional Administrator for a period of 15 days after the effective date of notification.

(3) During any such 15-day period, the Regional Administrator will make available for public inspection, during business hours, the aggregate data upon which an adjustment was based.

(4) If written comments are received during any such 15-day period that oppose or protest an inseason adjustment issued under this section, NMFS will reconsider the necessity for the adjustment and, as soon as practicable after that reconsideration, will either-

(i) Publish in thenotification of continued effectiveness of the adjustment, responding to comments received; or

(ii) Modify or rescind the adjustment.

(5) Notifications of inseason adjustments issued by NMFS under paragraph (a) of this section will include the following information:

(i) A description of the management adjustment.

(ii) Reasons for the adjustment and the determinations required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(iii) The effective date and any termination date of such adjustment. If no termination date is specified, the adjustment will terminate on the last day of the fishing year.
