
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.26 Prohibited Species Donation Program.
###### Authorized distributors,Application.

(b)-(1)An applicant seeking to become an authorized distributor must provide the Regional Administrator with the following information:

(i) Proof of the applicant's tax-exempt status.

(ii) A description of the arrangements for processing, shipping, storing, and transporting donated fish and an estimate of the associated costs.

(iii) A statement describing the applicant's expertise in providing for the distribution of food product from remote Alaskan locations to hunger relief agencies, food bank networks, or food bank distributors, including arrangements for transportation, distribution costs, and product quality control.

(iv) Documentation of support from cold storage and transportation facilities.

(v) A proposed operating budget that is adequate to ensure that fish donated under this program will be distributed to hunger relief agencies, food bank networks, or food bank distributors and that the fish will be maintained in a manner fit for human consumption.

(vi) Proof of the applicant's ability to obtain and maintain adequate funding for the distribution of fish under the PSD program.

(vii) A copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation and bylaws showing that the purpose of the applicant includes providing food resources to hunger relief agencies, food bank networks, or food bank distributors.

(viii) Proof of the applicant's ability to take full responsibility for the documentation and disposition of fish received under the PSD program, including sufficient liability insurance to cover public interests relating to the quality of fish distributed for human consumption.

(ix) Quality control criteria to be followed by vessels, processors, hunger relief agencies, food bank networks, and food bank distributors.

(x) The number of vessels and processors that the applicant is capable of administering effectively.

(xi) A list of all vessels and processors, and food bank networks or food bank distributors participating in the PSD program. The list of vessels and processors must include:

(A) The vessel's or processor's Federal fisheries permit number or Federal processor permit number.

(B) The name of the vessel owner or responsible operator or the name of the owner or plant manager of the processor.

(C) The vessel's or processor's telephone number.

(D) The signature of the vessel owner or responsible operator or the owner or plant manager of the processor.

(xii) A signed statement from the applicant and from all persons who are listed under paragraph (b)(1)(xi) of this section and who would conduct activities pursuant to the PSD permit waiving any and all claims against the United States and its agents and employees for any liability for personal injury, death, sickness, damage to property directly or indirectly due to activities conducted under the PSD program.

(xiii) A list of locations where fish must be delivered by participating vessels and processors.

(xiv) A separate application must be submitted for each species listed under paragraph (a) of this section that the applicant seeks to distribute.
