
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.28 Equipment and operational requirements.
###### Printed scale weights.

(3)(i) The owner and manager of the processor must ensure that printouts of the scale weight of each haul, set, or delivery are made available to observers, NMFS personnel, or an authorized officer at the time printouts are generated and thereafter upon request for the duration of the fishing year. The owner and manager must retain scale printouts as records as specified in ยง 679.5(a)(5)(ii).

(ii) A scale identified in a CMCP (see paragraph (g) of this section) must produce a printed record for each delivery, or portion of a delivery, weighed on that scale. If approved by NMFS as part of the CMCP, scales not designed for automatic bulk weighing may be exempted from part or all of the printed record requirements. The printed record must include:

(A) The processor name;

(B) The weight of each load in the weighing cycle;

(C) The total weight of fish in each delivery, or portion of the delivery that was weighed on that scale;

(D) The total cumulative weight of all fish or other material weighed on the scale since the last annual inspection;

(E) The date and time the information is printed;

(F) The name and ADF&G number of the vessel making the delivery. This information may be written on the scale printout in pen by the scale operator at the time of delivery.
