
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.28 Equipment and operational requirements.
###### Video Monitoring System Requirements,What requirements must a vessel owner and operator comply with for a video monitoring system?

(e)-(1)(i) The system must have sufficient data storage capacity to store all video data from an entire trip. Each frame of stored video data must record a time/date stamp in Alaska local time (A.l.t.).

(ii) The system must include at least one external USB port or other removable storage device approved by NMFS.

(iii) The system must output video files to an open source format or the vessel owner must provide software capable of converting the output video file to an open source format or commercial software must be available for converting the output video file to an open source format.

(iv) Color cameras must have at a minimum 470 TV lines of resolution, auto-iris capabilities, and output color video to the recording device with the ability to revert to black and white video output when light levels become too low for color recognition.

(v) The video data must be maintained by the vessel operator and made available on request by NMFS employees, or any individual authorized by NMFS. The data must be retained on board the vessel for no less than 120 days after the date the video is recorded, unless NMFS has notified the vessel operator that the video data may be retained for less than this 120-day period.

(vi) The system must record at a speed of no less than 5 unique frames per second at all times when the use of a video monitoring system is required.

(vii) NMFS employees, or any individual authorized by NMFS, must be able to view any video footage from any point in the trip using a 16-bit or better color monitor that can display all camera views simultaneously and must be assisted by crew knowledgeable in the operation of the system.

(viii) Unless exempted under paragraph (D) below, a 16-bit or better color monitor must be provided within the observer sampling station or at the location where the observer sorts and weighs samples. The monitor:

(A) Must have the capacity to display all camera views simultaneously;

(B) Must be operating when the use of a video monitoring system is required;

(C) Must be securely mounted at or near eye level;

(D) Is not applicable to longline C/Ps subject to ยง 679.100(b)(2).
