
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.28 Equipment and operational requirements.
###### What are the vessel owner's responsibilities?

(3)If you are a vessel owner that must participate in a VMS, you or your crew must:

(i) Obtain a NMFS-approved VMS transmitter with transmission capabilities required for the areas of vessel operation and have it installed onboard your vessel in accordance with the instructions provided by NMFS. You may get a copy of the VMS installation and operation instructions from the Regional Administrator upon request.

(ii) Activate the VMS transmitter and receive confirmation from NMFS that the VMS transmissions are being received before engaging in operations when a VMS is required.

(iii) Continue the VMS transmissions until no longer engaged in operations requiring VMS.

(iv) Stop fishing immediately if:

(A) Informed by NMFS staff or an authorized officer that NMFS is not receiving position reports from the VMS transmitter, or

(B) The vessel operator determines that the VMS is not transmitting properly.

(v) Make the VMS transmitter available for inspection by NMFS personnel, observers or an authorized officer.

(vi) Ensure that the VMS transmitter is not tampered with, disabled, destroyed or operated improperly.

(vii) Pay all charges levied by the communication service provider.

(4) What must the vessel owner do before activating a VMS transmitter for the first time? If you are a vessel owner who must use a VMS and you are activating a VMS transmitter for the first time, you must:

(i) Register the vessel's VMS unit with an appropriate service provider;

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) Call OLE at 907-586-7225, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 0800 hours, A.l.t., and 1630 hours, A.l.t., at least 72 hours before leaving port and receive confirmation that the transmissions are being received.
