
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart B - Management Measures
##### ยง 679.28 Equipment and operational requirements.
###### ELB approval.

(iii)NMFS will approve ELB software within 60 working days of receipt of all required information if the software meets the following standards in paragraphs (h)(1)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section):

(A) Has fields for the entry of all information required for a paper DFL or DCPL as described in ยง 679.5(c)(3) and (4), as appropriate.

(B) The software must automatically time and date stamp each printed copy of the ELB logsheet and ELB discard report and clearly identify the first printed copy as an original. If any changes are made to the data in the ELB, subsequent printed copies must clearly be identified as revised. The software must be designed to prevent the operator from overriding this feature.

(C) The software must export data as an ASCII comma delimited text file, xml file, or other format approved by NMFS.

(D) The software must integrate with the vessel's global positioning system (GPS) to allow vessel location fields to be completed automatically.

(E) When the software is started, it must clearly show the software version number.

(F) The software must be designed to facilitate the transfer of an export file to NMFS as an email attachment.

(G) The software must be designed to ensure that an operator can comply with the requirements for ELB use as described in ยง 679.5(f).

(H) The software must include sufficient data validation capability to prevent a submitter from accidentally transmitting a data file or printing an ELB logsheet that is incomplete or contains clearly erroneous data.
