
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### § 679.40 Sablefish and halibut QS.
###### Unverified data.

(9)Catch history, vessel ownership, or lease data that cannot be verified by the Regional Administrator, following the procedure described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, will not qualify for QS. An initial determination denying QS on the grounds that claimed catch history, vessel ownership or lease data were not verified may be appealed following the procedure described in § 679.43. Quota share reflecting catch history, vessel ownership, or lease data that are contested between two or more applicants, at least one of which is likely to qualify for QS when the dispute is resolved, will be assigned to a reserve that will be considered part of the QS pool for the appropriate IFQ regulatory area. Any QS and IFQ that results from agency action resolving the dispute will be assigned to the prevailing applicant(s) pursuant to paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(5), (b), and (c) of this section. If the assigned IFQ for the 1995 fishing season becomes moot by passage of time needed to resolve the dispute, the assignment of QS and IFQ for subsequent fishing seasons will be unaffected.

(10) NMFS revokes inactive QS if the person holding inactive QS does not:

(i) Respond in writing to NMFS, within 60 days after NMFS issues a Notice of Determination of Quota Share Inactivity (Inactive QS Notice) sent to the address of record as defined at § 679.43(e) of this part, requesting that the inactive QS not be revoked. Responses must be received by NMFS no later than the date contained on the Inactive QS Notice

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(10) of this section, "respond in writing" means write a statement directing NMFS to change the status of QS to "active" and sign and date the statement or complete the form attached to the Inactive QS Notice and send by U.S. Mail, courier, hand delivery, or facsimile to the NMFS, Alaska Region as provided on the Inactive QS Notice and printed on the front side of the form. The written response must be received by NMFS no later than the date contained on the Inactive QS Notice or if sent by mail, postmarked by that date. If delivered by hand or courier, the receiving date is the date the notice is stamped received by NMFS.

(iii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(10) of this section, the term "inactive QS" means halibut QS or sablefish QS, held by a person who received an initial allocation of halibut QS or sablefish QS and has not taken any of the following actions:

(A) Transferred any halibut QS or sablefish QS pursuant to § 679.41;

(B) Transferred any halibut IFQ or sablefish IFQ pursuant to § 679.41;

(C) Landed any halibut authorized by IFQ halibut permit(s) issued to that person; or

(D) Landed any sablefish authorized by IFQ sablefish permit(s) issued to that person.
