
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### § 679.41 Transfer of quota shares and IFQ.
###### Application for Transfer approval criteria.

(c)Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an Application for Transfer will not be approved until the Regional Administrator has determined that:

(1) The person applying for transfer received the QS or IFQ to be transferred:

(i) By initial assignment by the Regional Administrator as provided in § 679.40(a); or

(ii) By approved transfer.

(2) The person applying to receive the QS or IFQ meets the requirements of eligibility in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) The person applying for transfer and the person applying to receive the QS or IFQ have their signatures on the Application for Transfer.

(4) There are no fines, civil penalties, or other payments due and owing, or outstanding permit sanctions, resulting from Federal fishery violations involving either person.

(5) The person applying to receive the QS or IFQ currently exists.

(6) The transfer would not cause the person applying to receive the QS or IFQ to exceed the use limits in § 679.42 (e) or (f).

(7) The transfer would not violate the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section.

(8)(i) The person applying to make or receive the IFQ or QS transfer has paid all IFQ fees that have become due as a result of an initial administrative determination.

(ii) The person applying to make or receive the IFQ or QS transfer who has not paid all IFQ fees that are due (as provided under § 679.45(a)) has timely appealed the administrative determination that IFQ fees have not been paid in full and has submitted to NMFS an amount sufficient to satisfy any disputed liability pending a final agency action.

(9) Other pertinent information requested on the Application for Transfer has been supplied to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator.

(10) If the person applying to transfer or receive QS or IFQ is a CQE, the following determinations are required for each eligible community represented by that CQE:

(i) An individual applying to receive IFQ from QS held by a CQE is an eligible community resident of the eligible community in whose name the CQE is holding QS;

(ii) The CQE applying to receive or transfer QS, has submitted a complete annual report required by § 679.5 (t);

(iii) The CQE applying to transfer QS has provided information on the reasons for the transfer as described in paragraph (g)(7) of this section;

(iv) The CQE applying to receive QS is eligible to hold QS on behalf of the eligible community in the halibut or sablefish regulatory area designated for that eligible community in Table 21 to this part; and

(v) The CQE applying to receive QS has received notification of approval of eligibility to receive QS/IFQ for that community as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(11) If the person applying to receive or transfer QS is an RQE, the following determinations are required:

(i) The RQE applying to receive or transfer QS, has submitted the timely and complete annual report required by § 679.5(v);

(ii) The RQE applying to receive QS is eligible to hold QS on behalf of the charter halibut sector in IFQ regulatory area 2C or 3A; and

(iii) The RQE applying to receive QS has received notification of approval of eligibility to receive QS on behalf of the charter halibut sector in IFQ regulatory area 2C or 3A as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(12) The person applying to receive QS assigned to vessel category B, C, or D is not a corporation, partnership, association, or other non-individual entity, except as specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(13) If the person applying to receive halibut IFQ assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D in IFQ regulatory areas 4B, 4C, or 4D is a CDQ group, the following determinations are required:

(i) The CDQ group applying to receive halibut IFQ for an IFQ regulatory area receives an annual allocation of halibut CDQ for that IFQ regulatory area pursuant to § 679.31(b)(1);

(ii) The QS holder applying to transfer halibut IFQ to a CDQ group has not transferred any halibut IFQ assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D for that IFQ regulatory area to a CDQ group during the last two consecutive fishing years;

(iii) If the IFQ to be transferred to a CDQ group results from QS that was transferred to the QS holder after December 14, 2015, the QS holder applying to transfer halibut IFQ to a CDQ group has held the underlying QS for that IFQ for a minimum of 3 years from the date NMFS approved the transfer;

(iv) If the IFQ to be transferred to a CDQ group is assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D in IFQ regulatory area 4B, the QS holder applying to transfer that halibut IFQ to a CDQ group holds fewer than 76,355 halibut QS units in IFQ regulatory area 4B; and

(v) The CDQ group applying to receive halibut IFQ has submitted a complete report if required to do so by § 679.5(w).
