
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.41 Transfer of quota shares and IFQ.
###### Halibut.

(3)QS blocks for the same IFQ regulatory area and vessel category that represent less than 3,000 lb (1.4 mt) of halibut IFQ, based on the 1996 catch limit for halibut in a specific IFQ regulatory area and the QS pool for that IFQ regulatory area on January 31, 1996, may be consolidated into larger QS blocks provided that the consolidated blocks do not represent greater than 3,000 lb (1.4 mt) of halibut IFQ based on the preceding criteria. In Areas 2C and 3A, QS blocks for the same IFQ regulatory area and vessel category that represent less than 5,000 lb (2.3 mt) of halibut IFQ, based on the 1996 catch limit for halibut in a specific IFQ regulatory area and the QS pool for that IFQ regulatory area on January 31, 1996, may be consolidated into larger QS blocks provided that the consolidated blocks do not represent greater than 5,000 lb (2.3 mt) of halibut IFQ based on the preceding criteria. A consolidated block cannot be divided and is considered a single block for purposes of use and transferability. The maximum number of QS units that may be consolidated into a single block in each IFQ regulatory area is as follows:

(i) Area 2C: 33,320 QS.

(ii) Area 3A: 46,520 QS.

(iii) Area 3B: 44,193 QS.

(iv) Subarea 4A: 22,947 QS.

(v) Subarea 4B: 15,087 QS.

(vi) Subarea 4C: 30,930 QS.

(vii) Subarea 4D: 26,082 QS.

(viii) Subarea 4E: 0 QS.
