
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.41 Transfer of quota shares and IFQ.
###### Transfer restrictions.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f), paragraph (g)(2), paragraph (l), paragraph (n) or paragraph (o) of this section, only persons who are IFQ crew members, or who were initially issued QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D, and meet the eligibility requirements in this section, may receive by transfer QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D, or the IFQ resulting from it.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, only persons who are IFQ crew members, and meet the other requirements in this section, may receive by transfer QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D, or the IFQ resulting from it, in IFQ regulatory area 2C for halibut or in the IFQ regulatory area east of 140&#xB0; W. long. for sablefish.

(3) Individuals who were initially issued QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D may transfer that QS to a corporation that is solely owned by the same individual. Such transfers of QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D in IFQ regulatory area 2C for halibut or in the IFQ regulatory area east of 140&#xB0; W. long. for sablefish will be governed by the use provisions of ยง 679.42(i); the use provisions pertaining to corporations at ยง 679.42(j) shall not apply.

(4) The Regional Administrator will not approve an Application for Transfer of QS assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D subject to a lease or any other condition of repossession or resale by the person transferring QS, except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (m) of this section, or by court order, operation of law, or as part of a security agreement. The Regional Administrator may request a copy of the sales contract or other terms and conditions of transfer between two persons as supplementary information to the transfer application.

(5) A CQE may not hold QS in halibut IFQ regulatory area 2C that is assigned to vessel category D.

(i) A CQE may not hold QS in halibut IFQ regulatory area 3A that is assigned to vessel category D on behalf of a community that is located in halibut IFQ regulatory areas 2C or 3B as listed in Table 21 to part 679.

(ii) In aggregate, CQEs may not hold an amount of QS in halibut IFQ regulatory area 3A that is assigned to vessel category D in excess of 1,233,740 QS units.

(6) IFQ derived from QS held by a CQE on behalf of an eligible community:

(i) In the GOA may be used only by an eligible community resident of that community.

(ii) In the Aleutian Islands subarea may be used by any person who has received an approved Application for Eligibility as described in paragraph (d) of this section prior to March 17, 2019 and only by an eligible community resident of Adak, AK, after March 17, 2019.

(7) A CQE may transfer QS:

(i) To generate revenues to provide funds to meet administrative costs for managing the community QS holdings;

(ii) To generate revenue to improve the ability of residents within the community to participate in the halibut and sablefish IFQ fisheries;

(iii) To generate revenue to purchase QS to yield IFQ for use by community residents;

(iv) To dissolve the CQE; or

(v) As a result of a court order, operation of law, or as part of a security agreement.

(8) If the Regional Administrator determines that a CQE transferred QS for purposes other than those specified in paragraph (g)(7) of this section, then:

(i) The CQE must divest itself of any remaining QS holdings and will not be eligible to receive QS by transfer for a period of three years after the effective date of final agency action on the Regional Administrator's determination; and

(ii) The Regional Administrator will not approve a CQE to represent the eligible community in whose name the CQE transferred quota for a period of three years after the effective date of final agency action on the Regional Administrator's determination.

(9) For transfers of QS to an RQE, the RQE may only receive halibut QS that is assigned to IFQ regulatory area 2C or 3A.

(10) For transfers of QS from an RQE:

(i) Quota category and block designations at time of purchase by an RQE are retained if QS is transferred to an eligible QS holder for use in the IFQ program.

(ii) NMFS will not issue any IFQ from any QS transferred from an RQE to a QS holder for use in the IFQ program for a calendar year if that QS resulted in the issuance of RFQ to an RQE during that calendar year.

(11)(i) To maintain eligibility as the RQE authorized by NMFS, the RQE must be a non-profit entity incorporated under the laws of the State of Alaska and recognized as exempt from Federal income tax by the Internal Revenue Service as required by paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If the Regional Administrator determines the RQE approved by NMFS does not meet the requirements specified in paragraph (n)(1) of this section, NMFS will notify the RQE of the Regional Administrator's determination and specify that the RQE has 60 days to meet the requirements in paragraph (n)(1) of this section to maintain eligibility as the RQE authorized by NMFS.

(iii) If the RQE demonstrates to NMFS within 60 days of notification that it meets the requirements in paragraph (n)(1) of this section, NMFS will notify the RQE that it remains the authorized RQE.

(iv) If the RQE does not demonstrate to NMFS within 60 days of notification that it meets the requirements in paragraph (n)(1) of this section, NMFS will issue an initial administrative determination (IAD):

(A) Revoking authorization of the RQE;

(B) Disallowing the RQE from receiving any QS by transfer;

(C) Requiring the CQE to divest of any QS that it holds; and

(D) Withholding the issuance of RFQ based on any QS that the RQE holds.

(v) The RQE will have the opportunity to appeal the IAD through the National Appeals Office under the provisions established at 15 CFR part 906.
