
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.41 Transfer of quota shares and IFQ.
###### Compensation for CDQ allocations.

(j)(1) The Regional Administrator will compensate persons that receive a reduced halibut QS in IPHC regulatory areas 4B, 4C, 4D, or 4E because of the halibut CDQ program by adding halibut QS from IPHC regulatory areas 2C, 3A, 3B, and 4A. This compensation of halibut QS from areas 2C, 3A, 3B, and 4A will be allocated in proportion to the amount of halibut QS foregone due to the CDQ allocation authorized by this section.

(2) The Regional Administrator will compensate persons that receive a reduced sablefish QS in any BSAI IFQ regulatory area because of the sablefish CDQ program by taking sablefish QS from the IFQ regulatory areas of the GOA and allocating it in proportion to the loss suffered by persons in the BSAI area. Such additional compensation of sablefish QS will be allocated in proportion to the amount of sablefish QS foregone due to the CDQ allocation authorized by this section.

(3) Persons initially issued QS for IFQ regulatory areas in which a portion of the TAC is allocated to the CDQ Program will be compensated for halibut and sablefish harvest privileges foregone due to the CDQ Program. If a person does not hold QS in an IFQ regulatory area on the date the compensation is issued, that person's compensation will be issued as unblocked. If a person does hold QS in an IFQ regulatory area on the date compensation is issued, that person's compensation will be added to their existing QS in that IFQ regulatory area. The resulting QS amount will be blocked or unblocked according to the criteria found at ยง 679.40(a). Compensation will be calculated for each non-CDQ area using the following formula:
