
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.41 Transfer of quota shares and IFQ.
###### Application.,https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/region/alaska

(3)A QS holder may apply for a temporary military transfer by submitting an application for temporary transfer of halibut/sablefish IFQ to the Alaska Region, NMFS. NMFS will transfer, upon approval of the application, the applicable IFQ from the applicant (transferor) to the recipient (transferee). An application for temporary transfer of halibut/sablefish IFQ is available ator by calling 1-800-304-4846. A complete application must include all of the following:

(i) The transferor's identity including his or her full name, NMFS person ID, date of birth, permanent business mailing address, business telephone and fax numbers, and e-mail address (if any). A temporary mailing address may be provided, if appropriate.

(ii) The transferee's identity including his or her full name, NMFS person ID, date of birth, permanent business mailing address, business telephone and fax numbers, and e-mail address (if any). A temporary mailing address may be provided, if appropriate.

(iii) The identification characteristics of the IFQ including whether the transfer is for halibut or sablefish IFQ, IFQ regulatory area, actual number of IFQ pounds, transferor (seller) IFQ permit number, and fishing year.

(iv) Documentation of active military mobilization or deployment. This documentation must include the following:

(A) A copy of official documentation such as valid military orders or call that direct the transferor to report to active duty military service, to mobilize for a military deployment, or to report to active service.

(B) A concise description of the nature of the military deployment or active duty military service, including verification that the applicant is unable to participate in the IFQ fishery for which he or she holds IFQ permits during the IFQ season because of his/her active duty military service.

(v) The signatures and printed names of the transferor and transferee, and date.
