
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.42 Limitations on use of QS and IFQ.
###### IFQ regulatory area and vessel category.

(a)(1) The QS or IFQ specified for one IFQ regulatory area must not be used in a different IFQ regulatory area, except for the following:

(i) All or part of the QS and IFQ specified for regulatory area 4C may be harvested in either Area 4C or Area 4D.

(ii) All or part of the halibut CDQ specified for regulatory area 4D may be harvested in either Area 4D or Area 4E.

(iii) If a CDQ group is authorized to receive a transfer of halibut IFQ assigned to vessel categories B, C, or D in IFQ regulatory area 4D as specified in ยง 679.41(o) of this part, all or part of the halibut IFQ specified for regulatory area 4D that is held by or transferred to a CDQ group may be harvested in either Area 4D or Area 4E.

(2) The QS or IFQ assigned to one vessel category must not be used to harvest IFQ species on a vessel of a different vessel category, except:

(i) As provided in ยง 679.41(i)(1) of this part (CDQ compensation QS exemption);

(ii) IFQ derived from QS held by a CQE may be used to harvest IFQ species from a vessel of any length, with the exception of IFQ derived from QS in IFQ regulatory areas 3A and 4B that are assigned to vessel category D.

(A) Halibut IFQ derived from QS assigned to vessel category D in Area 3A that is held by a CQE located in Area 3A may be used to harvest IFQ halibut on a vessel less than or equal to 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA from August 15 to the end of the IFQ fishing season.

(B) [Reserved]

(iii) In IFQ regulatory areas 3B, 4B, and 4C, category D QS and associated IFQ authorizes an IFQ permit holder to harvest IFQ halibut on a vessel less than or equal to 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA.

(iv) Halibut IFQ assigned to vessel category B, C, or D held by a CDQ group may not be used on a vessel over 51 feet LOA, irrespective of the vessel category assigned to the IFQ.

(v) In IFQ regulatory areas 2C and 3A, RFQ held by an RQE may be harvested aboard charter vessels as defined at 50 CFR 300.61 of any size, regardless of the QS category from which that RFQ originated.
