
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### § 679.42 Limitations on use of QS and IFQ.
###### IFQ regulatory area 4B.

(iii)1,392,716 units of halibut QS.

(3) No CQE may hold halibut QS in the IFQ regulatory areas 4A, 4C, 4D, and 4E.

(4) A CQE representing an eligible community may receive by transfer or use QS only in the IFQ regulatory areas designated for that species and for that eligible community as described in Table 21 to this part.

(5) In the aggregate, all CQEs are limited to holding a maximum of:

(i) 21 percent of the total QS in each regulatory area specified in § 679.41(e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this part for halibut.

(ii) 15 percent of the total QS specified in § 679.41(e)(3)(v) of this part for halibut.

(6) No individual that receives IFQ derived from halibut QS held by a CQE, including GAF as defined in § 300.61 of this title, may hold, individually or collectively, more than 50,000 pounds (22.7 mt) of IFQ halibut, including IFQ halibut received as GAF, derived from any halibut QS source.

(7) A CQE receiving category B, C, or D halibut QS through transfer:

(i) In an IFQ regulatory area specified in § 679.41(e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this part may lease the IFQ resulting from that QS only to an eligible community resident of the eligible community represented by the CQE.

(ii) In IFQ regulatory Area 4B may lease the IFQ resulting from that QS to any person who has received an approved Application for Eligibility as described in § 679.41(d) prior to February 28, 2028 but only to an eligible community resident of Adak, AK, after February 28, 2028.
