
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.42 Limitations on use of QS and IFQ.
###### Sablefish QS Use.

(e)(1) No person other than a CQE representing the community of Adak, AK, individually or collectively, may use more than 3,229,721 units of sablefish QS, except if the amount of a person's initial allocation of sablefish QS is greater than 3,229,721 units, in which case that person may not use more than the amount of the initial allocation.

(2) In the IFQ regulatory area east of 140&#xB0; W. long., no person, individually or collectively, may use more than 688,485 units of sablefish QS for this area, except if the amount of a person's initial allocation of sablefish QS is greater than 688,485 units, in which case that person may not use more than the amount of the initial allocation.

(3) No CQE may hold sablefish QS in the IFQ regulatory area of the Bering Sea subarea.

(4) No CQE may hold more than:

(i) 3,229,721 units of sablefish QS on behalf of any single eligible community in the GOA; or

(ii) 4,789,874 units of sablefish QS on behalf of any single eligible community in the Aleutian Islands subarea.

(5) In the IFQ regulatory area east of 140&#xB0; W. long., no CQE may hold more than 688,485 units of sablefish QS for this area on behalf of any single eligible community.

(6) In the aggregate, all CQEs are limited to holding a maximum of:

(i) 21 percent of the total QS in each regulatory area specified in ยง 679.41(e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(iv) of this part for sablefish.

(ii) 15 percent of the total QS specified in ยง 679.41(e)(2)(v) of this part for sablefish.

(7) No individual that receives IFQ derived from sablefish QS held by a CQE may hold, individually or collectively, more than 50,000 lb (22.7 mt) of IFQ sablefish derived from any sablefish QS source.

(8) A CQE receiving category B or C sablefish QS through transfer and representing an eligible community:

(i) In the GOA may lease the IFQ resulting from that QS only to an eligible community resident of the eligible community on whose behalf the QS is held; and

(ii) In the Aleutian Islands subarea may lease the IFQ resulting from that QS to any person who has received an approved Application for Eligibility as described in ยง 679.41(d) prior to February 28, 2028, but only to an eligible community resident of Adak, AK, after February 28, 2028.

(9) A CQE representing an eligible community in the Aleutian Islands subarea may receive by transfer or use sablefish QS only in the Aleutian Islands subarea.
