
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.43 Determinations and appeals.
###### Written hearing.

(m)(1) An appellate officer may order a written hearing under paragraph (h)(1) of this section if he/she:

(i) Orders a hearing as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section; and

(ii) Determines that the issues to be resolved at hearing can be resolved by allowing the appellant to present written materials to support his/her position.

(2) After ordering a written hearing, the appellate officer will:

(i) Provide the appellant with notification that a written hearing has been ordered.

(ii) Provide the appellant with a statement of issues to be determined at hearing.

(iii) Provide the appellant with 30 days to file a written response. The appellant may also provide documentary evidence to support his/her position. The period to file a written response may be extended at the sole discretion of the appellate officer, if the appellant shows good cause for the extension.

(3) The appellate officer may, after reviewing the appellant's written response and documentary evidence:

(i) Order that an oral hearing be held, as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, to resolve issues that cannot be resolved through the written hearing process;

(ii) Request supplementary evidence from the appellant before closing the record; or

(iii) Close the record.

(4) The appellate officer will close the record and issue a decision after determining that the information on the record is sufficient to render a decision.
