
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Individual Fishing Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 679.45 IFQ cost recovery program.
###### Notify permit holder.

(ii)Notify the IFQ permit holder or RQE by letter that an insufficient amount has been paid and that the IFQ permit holder has 30 days from the date of the letter to either pay the amount determined to be due or provide additional documentation to prove that the amount paid was the correct amount.

(2) After the expiration of the 30-day period, the Regional Administrator will evaluate any additional documentation submitted by an IFQ permit holder or RQE in support of its payment. If the Regional Administrator determines that the additional documentation does not meet the burden of proving the payment is correct, the Regional Administrator will send the IFQ permit holder or RQE an IAD indicating that the IFQ permit holder or RQE did not meet the burden of proof to change the IFQ fee liability as calculated by the Regional Administrator based upon the IFQ standard ex-vessel value. The IAD will set out the facts and indicate the deficiencies in the documentation submitted by the IFQ permit holder or RQE. An IFQ permit holder or RQE who receives an IAD may appeal the IAD, as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) If the permit holder fails to file an appeal of the IAD pursuant to 15 CFR part 906, the IAD will become the final agency action.

(4) If the IAD is appealed and the final agency action is a determination that additional sums are due from the IFQ permit holder or RQE, the IFQ permit holder or RQE must pay any IFQ fee amount determined to be due not later than 30 days from the issuance of the final agency action.

(5) Upon final agency action determining that an IFQ permit holder or RQE has not paid his or her IFQ fee liability, any IFQ fishing permit held by the IFQ permit holder or RQE is not valid until all IFQ fee liabilities are paid.

(6) If payment is not received on or before the 30th day after the final agency action, the matter will be referred to the appropriate authorities for purposes of collection.
