
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart I - Import/Export Licenses and Inspection Fees
###### ยง 14.94 What fees apply to me?
####### Fee exemption program for low-risk importations and exportations,Program criteria.

(4)-(i)Businesses that require an import/export license under ยง 14.93 may be exempt from the designated port base inspection fee as set forth in this paragraph (k)(4)(i). To participate in this program, you, the U.S. importer or exporter, must continue to pay the overtime fees, the nondesignated port base fees, or the import/export license and nondesignated port application fees, and your business must meet all of the following conditions:

(A) Each shipment does not contain live wildlife.

(B) Each shipment does not contain wildlife that requires a permit or certificate under parts 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, or 23 of this chapter or is listed under part 16 of this chapter.

(C) Each shipment contains 25 or fewer wildlife parts and products containing wildlife.

(D) Each wildlife shipment is valued at $5,000 or less.

(E) Your business has not been assessed a civil penalty, issued a violation notice, or convicted of any misdemeanor or felony violations involving the import or export of wildlife.

(F) Your business has had two or fewer wildlife shipments that were refused clearance in the 5 years prior to the receipt of your request by the Service.

(G) Your business has not previously participated in the program and been removed for failure to meet the criteria.
