
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart J - Standards for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds to the United States
###### Specifications for Nonhuman Primates
####### ยง 14.121 Primary enclosures.

(a) No more than one primate shall be transported in a primary enclosure. However, a mother and her nursing young being transported to the United States for medical treatment, an established male-female pair, a family group, a pair of juvenile animals that have not reached puberty, or other pairs of animals that have been habitually housed together may be shipped in the same primary enclosure. Primates of different species shall not be shipped together in the same enclosure.

(b) A primary enclosure used to transport a primate shall be large enough to ensure that the animal has sufficient space to turn around freely in a normal manner, lie down, stand up (as appropriate for the species), and sit in a normal upright position without its head touching the top of the enclosure. However, a primate may be restricted in its movements according to professionally accepted standards of care when greater freedom of movement would constitute a danger to the primate or to its handler or other persons.

(c) Except as provided in ยง 14.106(j), ventilation openings must be located on at least two walls of a primary enclosure. When the required ventilation openings are located on two opposite walls of the primary enclosure, these ventilation openings shall comprise at least 30 percent of the total surface area of the ventilated wall and be situated above the midline of the enclosure. If ventilation openings are located on all four walls of the enclosure, the openings on each wall shall comprise at least 20 percent of the total surface area of the wall and be situated above the midline of the primary enclosure.
