
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart G - Rockfish Program
##### § 679.80 Allocation and transfer of rockfish QS.
###### Transfer of rockfish QS assigned to LLP licenses that exceeds rockfish QS use caps.

(2)(i) If an LLP license is assigned an initial allocation of aggregate rockfish QS that exceeds a use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2), the LLP license holder may transfer rockfish QS in excess of the use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2) separate from that LLP license and assign it to one or more LLP licenses. However, a transfer may not be approved by NMFS if that transfer would cause the receiving LLP license to exceed a use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2).

(ii) Prior to the transfer of an LLP license that is assigned an initial allocation of aggregate rockfish QS that exceeds a use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2), the LLP license holder must transfer the rockfish QS that is in excess of the use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2), separate from that LLP license, and assign it to one or more LLP licenses under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. On completion of the transfer of QS, the LLP license that was initially allocated an amount of aggregate rockfish QS in excess of the use cap may not exceed the use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2).

(iii) Any rockfish QS associated with the LLP license that is in excess of the use cap may be transferred only if Block C of the Application for Transfer License Limitation Program Groundfish/Crab License is filled out entirely.

(iv) Rockfish QS may only be transferred to an LLP license that has been assigned rockfish QS with the same sector designation as the rockfish QS to be transferred.

(v) Rockfish QS that is transferred from an LLP license that was initially allocated an amount of aggregate rockfish QS in excess of the use cap specified in § 679.82(a)(2) and assigned to another LLP license may not be severed from the receiving LLP license.
