
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart G - Rockfish Program
##### ยง 679.81 Rockfish Program annual harvester privileges.
###### Rockfish cooperative,General.

(i)-(1)This section governs the formation and operation of rockfish cooperatives. The regulations in this section apply only to rockfish cooperatives that have formed for the purpose of fishing with CQ issued annually by NMFS.

(i) Members of rockfish cooperatives should consult legal counsel before commencing any activity if the members are uncertain about the legality under the antitrust laws of the rockfish cooperative's proposed conduct.

(ii) Membership in a rockfish cooperative is voluntary. No person may be required to join a rockfish cooperative.

(iii) Members may leave a rockfish cooperative, but any CQ contributed by the rockfish QS held by that member remains assigned to that rockfish cooperative for the remainder of the calendar year.

(iv) An LLP license or vessel that has been assigned to a rockfish cooperative and that leaves the rockfish cooperative continues to be subject to the sideboard provisions established for that rockfish cooperative under ยง 679.82(d) and (e), as applicable, for that calendar year.

(v) If a person becomes the holder of an LLP license that had been previously assigned to a rockfish cooperative, then that person may join that rockfish cooperative upon receipt of that LLP license, but may not assign that LLP license to another rockfish cooperative during that calendar year.
