
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart G - Rockfish Program
##### ยง 679.85 Cost recovery.
###### Underpayment of fee liability.

(d)(1) Pursuant to ยง 679.81(f), no rockfish CQ holder will receive any rockfish CQ until the rockfish CQ holder submits a complete application. A complete application shall include full payment of an applicant's complete rockfish cost recovery fee liability.

(2) If a rockfish CQ holder fails to submit full payment for rockfish cost recovery fee liability by the date described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Administrator may:

(i) At any time thereafter send an IAD to the CQ permit holder stating that the CQ permit holder's estimated fee liability, as indicated by his or her own submitted information, is the rockfish cost recovery fee liability due from the CQ permit holder.

(ii) Disapprove any application to transfer rockfish CQ to or from the CQ permit holder in accordance with ยง 679.81(g).

(3) If a rockfish CQ holder fails to submit full payment by the rockfish cost recovery fee liability payment deadline described at paragraph (a)(3) of this section:

(i) No CQ permit will be issued to that rockfish CQ holder for that calendar year; and

(ii) No rockfish CQ will be issued based on the rockfish QS held by the members of that rockfish cooperative to any other CQ permit for that calendar year.

(4) Upon final agency action determining that a CQ permit holder has not paid his or her rockfish cost recovery fee liability, the Regional Administrator may continue to prohibit issuance of a CQ permit for any subsequent calendar years until NMFS receives the unpaid fees. If payment is not received by the 30th day after the final agency action, the agency may pursue collection of the unpaid fees.
