
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Condition of EUT:

Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer. Power is to be "on" for the duration of the test. Adjust the EUT as close to a zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Stabilize the EUT in the chamber at a reference temperature of 20 &#xB0;C. Conduct the tests as specified in the test procedure in brief and record the following data:

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Test load,

v. Indication,

vi. Errors, and

vii. Functions performance.

b. Increase the temperature in the chamber to the high temperature specified. Check by measurement that the EUT has reached temperature stability and maintain the temperature for 2 hours. Following the 2 hours, repeat the tests and record the test data indicated in this A.3.1 Test Sequence section.

c. Reduce the temperature in the chamber as per the IEC procedures to the specified low temperature. After temperature stabilization, allow the EUT to soak for 2 hours. Following the 2 hours, repeat the tests and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.1 Test Sequence section.

d. Raise the temperature in the chamber as per the IEC procedures to 5 &#xB0;C. After temperature stabilization, allow the EUT to soak for 2 hours. Following the 2 hours, repeat the tests and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.1 Test Sequence section.

e. Raise the temperature in the chamber as per the IEC procedures and to the 20 &#xB0;C reference temperature. After recovery, repeat the tests and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.1 Test Sequence section.
