
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Preconditioning:

None required.

a. Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer. Power is to be "on" for the duration of the test.

b. The handling of the EUT must be such that no condensation of water occurs on the EUT.

c. Adjust the EUT as close to a zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Allow 3 hours for stabilization of the EUT at a reference temperature of 20 &#xB0;C and a relative humidity of 50 percent. Following stabilization, conduct the tests as specified in the test procedures in brief and record the following data:

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Test load,

v. Indication,

vi. Errors, and

vii. Functions performance.

b. Increase the temperature in the chamber to the specified high temperature and a relative humidity of 85 percent. Maintain the EUT at no load for a period of 2 days. Following the 2 days, repeat the tests and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.2 Test Sequence section.

c. Allow full recovery of the EUT before any other tests are performed.
