
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Preconditioning:

None required.

a. Variable power source,

b. Calibrated voltmeter, and

c. Load cell simulator, if applicable.

a. Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer.

b. Adjust the EUT as close to a zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Stabilize the power supply at nominal voltage +/-2 percent.

b. Conduct the tests specified in the test procedure in brief and record the following data:

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Power supply voltage,

v. Test load,

vi. Indications,

vii. Errors, and

viii. Functions performance.

c. Reduce the power supply to -15 percent nominal.

d. Repeat the test and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.3 Test Sequence section.

e. Increase the power supply to + 10 percent nominal.

f. Repeat the test and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.3 Test Sequence section.

g. Unload the EUT and decrease the power supply to nominal power +/-2 percent.

h. Repeat the test and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.3 Test Sequence section.
