
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Preconditioning:

None required.

a. A test generator suitable to reduce the amplitude of the AC voltage from the mains. The test generator must be adjusted before connecting the EUT.

b. Load cell simulator, if applicable.

a. Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer.

b. Adjust the EUT as close to zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Stabilize all factors at nominal reference conditions.

b. Totalize as indicated in this A.3.4 Test Sequence section and record the-

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Power supply voltage,

v. Test load,

vi. Indications,

vii. Errors, and

viii. Functions performance.

c. Interrupt the power supply to zero voltage for a period equal to 8-10 ms. During interruption observe the effect on the EUT and record, as appropriate.

d. Repeat the steps four times in this A.3.4 Test Sequence section, making sure that there is a 10 second interval between repetitions. Observe the effect on the EUT.

e. Reduce the power supply to 50 percent of nominal voltage for a period equal to 16-20 ms. During reduction observe the effect on the EUT and record, as appropriate.

f. Repeat the steps four times in this A.3.4 Test Sequence section, making sure that there is a 10 second interval between repetitions. Observe the effect on the EUT.
