
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Conduct of the test:

Refer to the IEC Publication referenced in section A.4 Bibliography (e) for detailed test procedures.

A burst generator having an output impedance of 50 ohms.

The burst generator must be adjusted before connecting the EUT. The bursts must be coupled to the EUT both on common mode and differential mode interference.

a. Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer.

b. Adjust the EUT as close to a zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Stabilize all factors at nominal reference conditions.

b. Conduct the test as indicated in this A.3.5 Test Sequence section and record the-

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Test load,

v. Indication,

vi. Errors, and

vii. Functions performance.

c. Subject the EUT to at least 10 positive and 10 negative randomly phased bursts at the 1000 V mode. Observe the effect on the EUT and record, as appropriate.

d. Stabilize all factors at nominal reference conditions.

e. Repeat the test and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.5 Test Sequence section.
