
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 679 - FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Appendix A to Part 679 - Performance and Technical Requirements for Scales Used To Weigh Catch at Sea in the Groundfish Fisheries Off Alaska
##### Preconditioning:

None required.

a. The EUT without a ground terminal must be placed on a grounded plate which projects beyond the EUT by at least 0.1 m on all sides. The ground connection to the capacitor must be as short as possible.

b. Normal power supplied and "on" for a time period equal to or greater than the warm-up time specified by the manufacturer. Power is to be "on" for the duration of the test.

c. The EUT must be operating under standard atmospheric conditions for testing.

d. Adjust the EUT as close to a zero indication as practicable prior to the test.

a. Stabilize all factors at nominal reference conditions.

b. Conduct test as indicated in this A.3.6 Test Sequence section and record the-

i. Date and time,

ii. Temperature,

iii. Relative humidity,

iv. Power supply voltage,

v. Test load,

vi. Indication,

vii. Errors, and

viii. Functions performance.

c. Approach the EUT with the discharge electrode until discharge occurs and then remove it before the next discharge. Observe the effect of the discharge on the EUT and record, as appropriate.

d. Repeat the above step at least nine times, making sure to wait at least 10 seconds between successive discharges. Observe the effect on the EUT and record as appropriate.

e. Stabilize all factors at nominal reference conditions.

f. Repeat the test and record the test data as indicated in this A.3.6 Test Sequence section.
