
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 680.7 Prohibitions.
###### Receiving and processing CR crab.

(a)(1) Process any CR crab that has not been weighed by an RCR on:

(i) A scale approved by the State in which the RCR is located and that meets the requirements described in § 680.23(f); or

(ii) Onboard a catcher/processor RCR on a scale approved by NMFS as described in § 680.23(e).

(2) Receive CR crab harvested under an IFQ permit in any region other than the region for which the IFQ permit is designated, unless:

(i) Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab are received following the effective date of a NMFS-approved exemption pursuant to § 680.4(o), or

(ii) The IFQ permit and IFQ amount are subject to an exemption pursuant to § 680.4(p).

(3) Use IPQ on board a vessel outside of the territorial sea or internal waters of the State of Alaska.

(4) Use IPQ in any region other than the region for which the IPQ permit is designated, unless:

(i) Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab IPQ is used following the effective date of a NMFS-approved exemption pursuant to § 680.4(o), or

(ii) The IPQ permit and IPQ amount are subject to an exemption pursuant to § 680.4(p).

(5) Receive any crab harvested under a Class A IFQ permit in excess of the total amount of unused IPQ held by the RCR in a crab QS fishery unless that RCR subsequently receives unused IPQ by transfer as described under § 680.41 that is at least equal to the amount of all Class A IFQ received by that RCR in that crab QS fishery before the end of the crab fishing year for which an IPQ permit was issued.

(6) Receive crab harvested under a Class B IFQ permit on a vessel if that vessel was used to harvest and process any crab in that crab QS fishery during the same crab fishing season.

(7) For an IPQ holder to use more IPQ than the maximum amount of IPQ that may be held by that person. Use of IPQ includes all IPQ held by that person, and all IPQ crab that are received by any RCR at any shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor in which that IPQ holder has a 10 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest, unless that IPQ crab meets the requirements in § 680.42(b)(7) or § 680.42(b)(8).

(8) For a shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor, that does not have at least one owner with a 10 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest who also holds IPQ in that crab QS fishery, to receive in excess of 30 percent of the IPQ issued for that crab fishery, unless that IPQ meets the requirements described in § 680.42(b)(7) or § 680.42(b)(8).

(9) For any shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor east of 174 degrees west longitude to use more than 60 percent of the IPQ issued in the EAG or WAI crab QS fisheries, unless that IPQ meets the requirements described in § 680.42(b)(8).
