
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 680.7 Prohibitions.
###### Landing CR crab.

(b)(1) Remove retained and unprocessed CR crab from a vessel at any location other than to an RCR operating under an approved catch monitoring plan as described in § 680.23(g) unless that crab is accompanied by a signed landing receipt showing the crab was properly landed.

(2) Remove any CR crab processed at sea from any vessel before completing a landing report, as defined at § 680.5(c), for all such CR crab onboard.

(3) Fail to remove all processed crab harvested under a CPO or a CPC IFQ permit to an onshore location within the United States, accessible by road or regularly scheduled air service, and to weigh that crab product on a scale approved by the State in which the crab is weighed.

(4) Make an IFQ crab landing except by an individual who holds either a crab IFQ permit or a crab IFQ hired master permit issued under § 680.4 in his or her name.

(5) Make an IFQ crab landing without the following on board: a copy of the crab IFQ permit to be debited for the landing; and, if applicable, a copy of the crab IFQ hired master permit issued under § 680.4 in the name of the person making the landing.

(6) For a Crab IFQ hired master to make an IFQ crab landing on any vessel other than the vessel named on the Crab IFQ hired master permit.
