
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Official crab rationalization record.

(2)The official crab rationalization record will be used to determine the amount of QS that is to be allocated for each crab QS fishery. The official crab rationalization record is presumed to be correct. An applicant for QS has the burden to prove otherwise. For the purposes of creating the official crab rationalization record the Regional Administrator will presume the following:

(i) An LLP license is presumed to have been used onboard the same vessel from which that LLP is derived, unless documentation is provided establishing otherwise.

(ii) If more than one person is claiming the same legal landings or legal processing activities, then each person eligible to receive QS or PQS based on those activities will receive an equal share of any resulting QS or PQS unless the applicants can provide written documentation establishing an alternative means for distributing the QS or PQS.

(iii) For the purposes of determining eligibility for CPO QS, a person is presumed to have processed BSAI crab in 1998 or 1999 if the vessel on which the applicant's LLP license is based processed such crab in those years.
