
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Computation for initial issuance of QS.

(2)(i) Based on the official crab rationalization record the Regional Administrator shall derive the annual harvest denominator (AHD) that represents the amount of legally landed crab in each crab QS fishery in each qualifying year as established in Column B of Table 7 to this part.

(ii) The initial QS pool is described in Table 8 to this part.

(iii) A person's initial allocation of QS shall be based on a percentage of the legal landings for the applicable sector in each crab QS fishery:

(A) Associated with crab LLP licenses held by the applicant for CVO or CPO QS; or

(B) Authorized under a State of Alaska Interim Use Permit held by the applicant for CVC or CPC QS.

(iv) The Regional Administrator shall calculate the allocation of CVO and CPO QS for each crab QS fishery "f" based on each fully transferable LLP license "l" held by a qualified person by the following formulas:

(A) Sum legal landings for each qualifying year, as described in Column B of Table 7 to this part, and divide that amount by the AHD for that year as follows:

(B) In those fisheries where only a subset of the qualifying years are applied, the Regional Administrator will use the years that yield the highest percentages of each AHD as calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section.

(C) Sum the highest percentages of the AHD's for that license as calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section and divide by the number in Column E of Table 7 to this part (Subset of Qualifying Years). This yields the Average Percentage as presented in the following equation:

(D) Divide the Average percentage in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) of this section for a license and fishery by the Sum of all Average Percentages for all licenses for that fishery as presented in the following equation:

(E) Multiply the Percentage of the Total Percentages in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(D) of this section by the Initial QS Pool as described in Table 8 to this part. This yields the unadjusted number of QS units derived from a license for a fishery.

(F) Multiply the unadjusted number of QS units in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(E) of this section by 97 percent. This yields the number of QS units to be allocated.

(G) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a LLP license with a catcher/processor designation that were processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CPO QS to be allocated.

(H) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a LLP license that were not processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CVO QS to be allocated.

(I) Determine the percentage of legal landings associated with an LLP license in the subset of qualifying years that were delivered in each region as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region.

(J) The percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(I) of this section may be adjusted according to the provisions at paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section.

(v) As shown in the formulas under this paragraph (c)(2)(v), the allocation of CVC and CPC QS for each crab QS fishery "f" based on each State of Alaska Interim Use Permit "i" held by each qualified person shall be calculated by the Regional Administrator as follows:

(A) Sum legal landings for each qualifying year as described in Column B of Table 7 to this part and divide that amount by the AHD for that year using the following equation:

(B) In those fisheries where only a subset of the qualifying years are applied, the Regional Administrator will use the years that yield the highest percentages of the AHD as calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A) of this section.

(C) Sum the highest percentages of the AHDs for that license calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(v)(B) of this section and divide by the number in Column E of Table 7 to this part (Subset of Qualifying Years). This yields the Average Percentage as presented in the following equation:

(D) Divide the Average Percentage in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(C) of this section for a permit and fishery by the Sum of all Average Percentages for all permits for that fishery as presented in the following equation:

(E) Multiply the Percentage of the Total Percentages in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) of this section by the Initial QS Pool as described in Table 8 to this part. This yields the unadjusted number of QS units derived from a permit for a fishery.

(F) Multiply the unadjusted number of QS units in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) of this section by 3 percent. This yields the number of QS units to be allocated.

(G) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a permit that were processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CPC QS to be allocated.

(H) Determine the percentage of legal landings in the subset of qualifying years associated with a permit that were not processed on that vessel and multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section by this percentage. This yields the amount of CVC QS to be allocated.

(I) Determine the percentage of legal landings associated with a permit in the subset of qualifying years that were delivered in each region as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region.

(J) The percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(I) of this section may be adjusted according to the provisions at paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. The amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(H) of this section is multiplied by the percentage for each region. These regional QS designations do not apply to CVC QS.
