
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Adjustment of CVO and CVC QS allocation for North and South regional designation.

(3)The Regional Administrator may adjust the regional designation of QS to ensure that it is initially allocated in the same proportion as the regional designation of PQS for that crab QS fishery. A person who would receive QS based on the legal landings in only one region, will receive QS with only that regional designation. A person who would receive QS with more than one regional designation for that crab QS fishery would have his or her QS holdings regionally adjusted on a pro rata basis as follows:

(i) Determine the ratio of the Initial PQS pool in the North and South regions.

(ii) Multiply the Initial QS pool by the ratio of North and South PQS. This will yield the target QS pool for each region.

(iii) Sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive North QS yielding the unadjusted North QS pool, and sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive South QS yielding the unadjusted South QS pool.

(iv) To calculate the amount of QS available for adjustment, subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving North only QS from the unadjusted North QS pool and subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving South only QS from the unadjusted South QS pool, as presented in the following equations:

(A) Unadj. North QS -North QS only = North QS for [North & South] QS holders.

(B) Unadj. South QS -South QS only = South QS for [North & South] QS holders.

(v) Determine which region becomes the gaining region if the target QS pool is greater than the unadjusted QS pool.

(vi) Subtract the gaining region unadjusted QS pool from the gaining region target QS pool to calculate the number of QS units that need to be applied to the gaining region. This amount is the Adjustment Amount as presented in the following equation:

(vii) Divide the Adjustment Amount by the unadjusted losing region QS pool for North and South QS holders. This yields the regional adjustment factor (RAF) for each person as presented in the following equation:

(viii) For each person (p) who holds both North and South Region QS, the QS adjustment (QS Adj. (p)) to that person's Unadjusted losing region QS is expressed in the following equation as:

(ix) The QS adjustment for person (p) is made by subtracting the QS adjustment from that person's unadjusted losing region QS amount and added to that person's unadjusted gaining region QS. These adjustments will yield the regional adjustment QS amounts for that person.
