
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Regional designation of Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab.

(4)Fifty percent of the CVO QS that is issued in the WAG crab QS fishery will be initially issued with a West regional designation. The West regional designation applies to QS for delivery west of 174&#xB0; W. longitude. The remaining 50 percent of the CVO QS initially issued for this fishery is not subject to regional designation (Undesignated QS). A person (p) who would receive QS based on the legal landings in only one region will receive QS with only that regional designation. A person who would receive QS with more than one regional designation for that crab QS fishery would have his or her QS holdings regionally adjusted on a pro rata basis as follows:

(i) The West QS pool is equal to 50 percent of the initial QS pool.

(ii) The Undesignated QS pool is equal to 50 percent of the initial QS pool.

(iii) Sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive West QS yielding the unadjusted West QS pool, and sum the QS for all persons who are eligible to receive undesignated QS yielding the unadjusted undesignated QS pool.

(iv) To calculate the amount of QS available for adjustment, subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving West only QS from the unadjusted West QS pool and subtract the amount of QS for persons receiving undesignated only QS from the unadjusted undesignated QS pool, as presented in the following equation:

(A) Unadj. West QS-West QS only = West QS for [West & Undesignated] QS holders.

(B) Unadj. Undesignated QS-Undesignated QS only = Undesignated QS for [West & Undesignated] QS holders.

(v) Subtract the gaining region Unadjusted QS pool from the gaining region Target QS pool to calculate the number of QS units that will need to be applied to the gaining region. This amount is the Adjustment Amount as presented in the following equation:

(vi) Divide the Adjustment Amount by the unadjusted losing region QS pool for West and Undesignated QS holders. This yields the regional adjustment factor (RAF) for each person as presented in the following equation:

(vii) For each person (p) who holds both unadjusted West and Undesignated Region QS, the QS adjustment (QS Adj. p) to that person's Unadjusted West QS is expressed in the following equation as:

(viii) The QS adjustment for person (p) is made by subtracting the QS adjustment for that person's unadjusted losing region QS amount and subtracted from that person's unadjusted gaining region QS. These adjustments will yield the regional adjustment QS amounts for that person.
