
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Calculation of PQS allocation,Computation for initial issuance of PQS.

(e)-(1)(i) The Regional Administrator shall establish the Total Processing Denominator (TPD) which represents the amount of legally processed raw crab pounds in each crab QS fishery in all qualifying years.

(ii) For each crab QS fishery, the percentage of the initial PQS pool that will be distributed to each qualified person shall be based on their percentage of the TPD according to the following procedure:

(A) Sum the raw crab pounds purchased for each person for all qualifying years.

(B) Divide the sum calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section by the TPD. Multiply by 100. This yields a person's percentage of the TPD.

(C) Sum the TPD percentages of all persons.

(D) Divide the percentage for a person calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section by the sum calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(C) of this section for all persons. This yields a person's percentage of the TPD.

(E) Multiply the amount calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(D) of this section by the PQS pool for that crab QS fishery as that amount is defined in Table 8 to this part.

(F) Determine the percentages of legally processed crab that were processed in each region. The percentages calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(E) of this section are multiplied by the amount determined within each regional designation. Regional designations will apply to that PQS according to the provisions established in paragraphs (d)(2) and (e)(2) of this section.
