
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### CVO or CPO QS.

(iv)(A) For vessels whose catch histories are being claimed for purposes of the crab QS program, enter the following information: name of the vessel, ADF&G vessel registration number, USCG documentation number, moratorium crab permit number(s), and crab LLP license number(s) held by the applicant and used on that vessel, qualifying years or seasons fished by fishery, and dates during which those permits were used on that vessel.

(B) Indicate (YES or NO) whether applicant is applying for QS for any crab QS fishery for which the applicant purchased an LLP license prior to January 1, 2002, in order to remain in that fishery. If YES, include LLP crab license number, and the vessel's name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number.

(C) Indicate (YES or NO) whether QS is being claimed based on the fishing history of a vessel that was lost or destroyed. If YES, include the name, ADF&G registration number, and USCG documentation number of the lost or destroyed vessel, the date the vessel was lost or destroyed, and evidence of the loss or destruction.

(D) Indicate (YES or NO) whether the lost or destroyed vessel described in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section was replaced with a newly constructed vessel. If YES, include the name, ADF&G vessel registration number, and USCG documentation number of the replacement vessel, date of vessel construction, and date vessel entered fishery(ies). Indicate (YES or NO) if the replacement vessel participated in a Bering Sea crab fishery by October 31, 2002. If YES, provide documentation of the replacement vessel's participation by October 31, 2002, in a Bering Sea crab fishery.

(E) If the applicant is applying for CPO QS, indicate (YES or NO) whether the applicant processed crab from any of the crab QS fisheries listed on Table 1 to this part on board a vessel authorized by one of the LLP licenses listed in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(A) of this section in 1998 or 1999. If YES, enter information for the processed crab, including harvest area, date of landing, and crab species.
