
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Eligibility for CVC and CPC IFQ.

(2)For each crab fishing year after June 30, 2018, individuals holding CVC or CPC QS permits must meet the participation requirements set forth in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) or (g)(2)(ii) of this section in order to receive CVC or CPC IFQ unless the CVC or CPC QS permit holder meets the exemption provided in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) The individual has participated as crew in at least one delivery of crab in any CR crab fishery during the three crab fishing years preceding the crab fishing year for which the individual is filing an annual crab IFQ permit application. If the individual holds C share QS in a single CR crab fishery and that CR crab fishery is closed to fishing for an entire crab fishing year, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied this participation requirement.

(ii) The individual was an initial recipient of CVC or CPC QS and participated as crew in at least 30 days of fishing in a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a U.S. commercial fishery in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone off Alaska during the three crab fishing years preceding the crab fishing year for which the individual is filing an annual crab IFQ permit application. Individuals may combine participation as crew in State and Federal commercial fisheries to meet this requirement. If the individual holds C share QS in a single CR crab fishery and that CR crab fishery is closed to fishing for an entire crab fishing year, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied this participation requirement.

(iii) All of the CVC or CPC QS permits held by the individual were acquired using the eligibility criteria in 50 CFR 680.41(c)(1)(vii)(B) and the individual has held those CVC or CPC QS permits for less than three full crab fishing years.
