
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.40 Crab Quota Share (QS), Processor QS (PQS), Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ), and Individual Processor Quota (IPQ) Issuance.
###### Participation requirements for retention of CVC QS and CPC QS.

(m)(1) Beginning July 1, 2019, and each crab fishing year thereafter, individuals allocated CVC QS or CPC QS must meet the participation requirements set forth in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) or (m)(2)(ii) of this section in order to retain their CVC QS or CPC QS unless the CVC or CPC QS holder meets the exemption provided in paragraph (m)(5) of this section.

(2)(i) The individual has participated as crew in at least one delivery of crab in any CR crab fishery during the previous four consecutive crab fishing years. If the individual holds C share QS in a single CR crab fishery and that CR crab fishery is closed to fishing for an entire crab fishing year, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied this participation requirement.

(ii) The individual was an initial recipient of CVC QS or CPC QS and participated as crew in at least 30 days of fishing in a commercial fishery managed by the State of Alaska or in a U.S. commercial fishery in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone off Alaska during the previous four consecutive crab fishing years. Individuals may combine participation as crew in State and Federal commercial fisheries to meet this requirement. If the individual holds C share QS in a single CR crab fishery and that CR crab fishery is closed to fishing for an entire crab fishing year, NMFS will exclude that crab fishing year when determining whether the individual has satisfied this participation requirement.

(3) An individual issued a CVC QS or CPC QS permit may include information demonstrating compliance with the participation requirements in paragraph (m)(2) of this section with the individual's annual Application for Crab IFQ.

(4) If an individual issued a CVC QS or CPC QS permit fails to meet the participation requirements in paragraph (m)(2) of this section or fails to qualify for the exemption in paragraph (m)(5) of this section, NMFS will revoke all of the individual's CVC QS or CPC QS in accordance with ยง 680.43.

(5) All of the CVC or CPC QS permits held by the individual were acquired using the eligibility criteria in ยง 680.41(c)(1)(vii)(B) and the individual has held those CVC or CPC QS permits for less than four full crab fishing years.
