
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.42 Limitations on use of QS, PQS, IFQ, and IPQ.
###### QS and IFQ use caps,General.

(a)-(1)Separate and distinct QS and IFQ use caps apply to all QS and IFQ categories pertaining to a given crab QS fishery with the following provisions:

(i) A person who receives an initial allocation of QS that exceeds the use cap listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may not receive QS by transfer unless and until that person's holdings are reduced to an amount below the use cap.

(ii) A person will not be issued QS in excess of the use cap established in this section based on QS derived from landings attributed to an LLP license obtained via transfer after June 10, 2002 unless;

(A) The person applies to receive QS based on an LLP transferred after June 10, 2002 but prior to November 24, 2004, and

(B) The person will receive the amount of QS associated with that transferred LLP in excess of the use cap established in this section for a crab QS fishery solely because of the adjustment to legal landings available for QS allocation resulting from the BSAI Crab Capacity Reduction Program.

(iii) QS and IFQ use caps shall be based on the initial QS pools used to determine initial allocations of QS.

(2) Except for non-individual persons who hold PQS, as provided for in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or a CDQ group, as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a person, individually or collectively, may not:

(i) Hold QS in amounts in excess of the amounts specified in the following table, unless that person's QS was received in the initial allocation:

(ii) Use IFQ in excess of the amount of IFQ that results from the QS caps in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, unless that IFQ results from QS that was received by that person in the initial allocation of QS for that crab QS fishery.

(3) A CDQ Group, individually or collectively, may not:

(i) Hold QS in excess of more than the amounts of QS specified in the following table:

(ii) Use IFQ in excess of the amount of IFQ that results from the QS caps in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, unless that IFQ results from QS that was received by that person in the initial allocation of QS for that crab QS fishery.

(4) A person who is not an individual and who holds PQS may not:

(i) Hold QS in excess of the amounts specified in the following table:

(ii) Use IFQ in excess of the amount of IFQ that results from the QS caps in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, unless that IFQ results from QS that was received by that person in the initial allocation of QS for that crab QS fishery.

(iii) A non-individual person that holds PQS, and all affiliates of that person, is limited to a QS and IFQ use cap that is calculated based on the sum of all QS or IFQ held by that PQS holder and all QS or IFQ held by any affiliate of the PQS holder.

(5) IFQ that is used by a crab harvesting cooperative is not subject to the use caps in this paragraph (a) except as provided for in paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(6) Non-individual persons holding QS will be required to provide, on an annual basis, a list of persons with an ownership interest in the non-individual QS holder. This list of owners shall be provided to the individual level and will include the percentage of ownership held by each individual. This annual submission of information must be submitted as part of the complete annual application for crab IFQ/IPQ permit.

(7) In a calendar year, an entity as described in ยง 680.40(c)(5)(ii), (c)(5)(iii), or (c)(5)(iv), may not use more than 1,000,000 lb (453.6 mt) of IFQ derived from converted CPO QS in the BBR or BSS crab QS fisheries.
