
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.42 Limitations on use of QS, PQS, IFQ, and IPQ.
###### PQS and IPQ Use Caps.

(b)(1) A person may not:

(i) Hold more than 30 percent of the initial PQS pool in any crab QS fishery unless that person received an initial allocation of PQS in excess of this limit. A person will not be issued PQS in excess of the use caps established in this section based on PQS derived from the transfer of legal processing history after June 10, 2002.

(ii) Use IPQ in excess of the amount of IPQ that results from the PQS caps in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, unless that IPQ is:

(A) Derived from PQS that was received by that person in the initial allocation of PQS for that crab QS fishery, or

(B) Subject to an exemption for that IPQ pursuant to ยง 680.4(p).

(2) A person may not use more than 60 percent of the IPQ issued in the BSS crab QS fishery with a North region designation during a crab fishing year except that a person who:

(i) Holds IPQ; and

(ii) Has a 10 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest in the shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor where that IPQ crab is processed will not be considered to use any IPQ in the BSS crab QS fishery with a North region designation if that IPQ meets the requirements described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(3) Non-individual persons holding PQS will be required to provide, on an annual basis, a list of persons with an ownership interest in the non-individual PQS holder. This list of owners shall be provided to the individual level and will include the percentage of ownership held by each individual. This annual submission of information must be submitted as part of the complete annual application for crab IFQ/IPQ permit. A person will be considered to be a holder of PQS for purposes of applying the PQS use caps in this paragraph if that person:

(i) Is the sole proprietor of an entity that holds PQS; or

(ii) Is not a CDQ group and directly or indirectly owns a 10 percent or greater interest in an entity that holds PQS.

(iii) A person that is not a CDQ group and holds PQS is limited to a PQS use cap that is calculated based on the sum of all PQS held by that PQS holder and all PQS held by any affiliate of the PQS holder. A CDQ group that holds PQS is limited to a PQS use cap that is calculated based on the sum of all PQS held, individually or collectively, by that CDQ group.

(iv) A person that is not a CDQ group and holds IPQ is limited to an IPQ use cap that is calculated based on the sum of all IPQ held by that IPQ holder and all IPQ held by any affiliate of the IPQ holder. A CDQ group that holds IPQ is limited to an IPQ use cap that is calculated based on the sum of all IPQ held, individually or collectively, by that CDQ group.

(4) Before July 1, 2007, IPQ for the BSS, BBR, PIK, SMB, and EAG crab QS fisheries may not be used to process crab derived from PQS based on activities in an ECC, except in the geographic boundaries established in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, except that, before July 1, 2007:

(i) Ten percent of the IPQs that are issued for a crab QS fishery or an amount of IPQ that yields up to 500,000 raw crab pounds (226.7 mt) on an annual basis, whichever is less, may be leased for use in processing crab outside that ECC. The amount of IPQ that is issued on an annual basis for use in that ECC and the amount that may be leased outside that ECC will be established annually and will be divided on a pro rata basis among all PQS permit holders issued IPQ for use in that ECC for that year.

(ii) IPQ in excess of the amounts specified in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section may be used outside the ECC for which that IPQ is designated if an unavoidable circumstance prevents crab processing within that ECC. For purposes of this section, an unavoidable circumstance exists if the specific intent to conduct processing for a crab QS species in that ECC was thwarted by a circumstance that was:

(A) Unavoidable;

(B) Unique to the IPQ permit holder, or to the processing facility used by the IPQ permit holder in that ECC;

(C) Unforeseen and reasonably unforeseeable to the IPQ permit holder;

(D) The circumstance that prevented the IPQ permit holder from processing crab in that ECC actually occurred; and

(E) The IPQ permit holder took all reasonable steps to overcome the circumstance that prevented the IPQ permit holder from conducting processing for that crab QS fishery in that ECC.

(iii) This provision does not exempt any IPQ permit holder from any regional designation that may apply to that IPQ.

(iv) Geographic boundaries for use of IPQ outside ECCs for purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section:

(A) Akutan, False Pass, King Cove, or Port Moller: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the Aleutians East Borough as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska;

(B) Kodiak: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the Kodiak Island Borough as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska;

(C) Adak: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the City of Adak as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska;

(D) Unalaska/Dutch Harbor: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the City of Unalaska as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska.

(E) St. George: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the City of St. George as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska.

(F) St. Paul: IPQ may not be used outside of the boundaries of the City of St. Paul as those boundaries are established by the State of Alaska.

(5) Any person harvesting crab under a Class A CVO or Class A CVC IFQ Permit, except as provided under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, must deliver that crab:

(i) Only to RCRs with unused IPQ for the same crab QS fishery; and

(ii) Only to an RCR in the region for which the QS and IFQ is designated.

(6) Any person harvesting crab under a Class B IFQ, CPO IFQ, CVC IFQ, or CPC IFQ permit may deliver that crab to any RCR.

(7) Any IPQ crab that is received by an RCR will not be considered use of IPQ by an IPQ holder who has a 10 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest in the shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor where that IPQ crab is processed under ยง 680.7(a)(7) or paragraph (a)(8) of this section if:

(i) That RCR is not affiliated with an IPQ holder who has a 10 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest in the shoreside crab processor or stationary floating crab processor where that IPQ crab is processed; and

(ii) The IPQ crab meets the conditions in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section or the IPQ crab meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(7)(ii)(C) of this section:

(A) The IPQ crab is:
