
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 680 - SHELLFISH FISHERIES OF THE EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OFF ALASKA
#### Subpart C - Quota Management Measures
##### ยง 680.42 Limitations on use of QS, PQS, IFQ, and IPQ.
###### Vessel limitations.

(c)(1) Except for vessels that participate solely in a crab harvesting cooperative as described under ยง 680.21 and under the provisions described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, no vessel may be used to harvest CVO or CPO IFQ in excess of the following percentages of the TAC for that crab QS fishery for that crab fishing year:

(i) 2.0 percent for BSS;

(ii) 2.0 percent for BBR;

(iii) 2.0 percent for EBT;

(iv) 2.0 percent for WBT;

(v) 4.0 percent for PIK;

(vi) 4.0 percent for SMB;

(vii) 20.0 percent for EAG;

(viii) 20.0 percent for WAG; or

(ix) 20.0 percent for the WAI crab QS fishery west of 179&#xB0; W. long.

(2) CVC or CPC IFQ used on a vessel will not be included in determining whether a vessel use cap is met.

(3) A single person who receives an initial allocation of QS that results in IFQ that is in excess of the vessel use caps, in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, that person may catch and retain crab harvested with the resulting IFQ with a single vessel. However, this provision does not apply to IFQ resulting from QS derived from transfer of an LLP crab license that occurred after June 10, 2002. Two or more persons may not catch and retain their IFQ with one vessel in excess of these limitations.

(4) A vessel use cap would not apply to a vessel if all of the CVO or CPO IFQ used on that vessel in a crab fishing year is held by a crab harvesting cooperative. This exemption is forfeited if that vessel is used to harvest any amount of CVO or CPO IFQ not held by a crab harvesting cooperative during the same crab fishing year.

(5) A person holding a CVC or CPC IFQ permit is required to be aboard the vessel upon which their IFQ is being harvested.

(6) A person holding CVO or CPO QS does not have to be aboard the vessel being used to harvest their IFQ if they hold at least a 10 percent ownership interest in the vessel upon which the IFQ is to be harvested and are represented on board the vessel by a crab IFQ hired master employed by that QS holder as authorized under ยง 680.4.

(7) Ownership of a vessel means, for purposes of this section:

(i) A sole proprietor; or

(ii) A person that directly or indirectly owns a 10 percent or greater interest in an entity that owns a vessel.
