
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter VI - Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### PART 697 - ATLANTIC COASTAL FISHERIES COOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 697.7 Prohibitions.
###### Atlantic Coast weakfish fishery.

(a)In addition to the prohibitions set forth in ยง 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

(1) Fish for, harvest, or possess any weakfish less than 12 inches (30.5 cm) in total length (measured as a straight line along the bottom of the fish from the tip of the lower jaw with the mouth closed to the end of the lower tip of the tail) from the EEZ.

(2) Retain any weakfish less than 12 inches (30.5 cm) in total length taken in or from the EEZ.

(3) Fish for weakfish in the EEZ with a minimum mesh size less than 3-inch (8.3 cm) square stretch mesh (as measured between the centers of opposite knots when stretched taut) or 3-inch (9.5 cm) diamond stretch mesh for trawls and 2-inch (7.3 cm) stretch mesh for gillnets.

(4) Possess more than 150 lb (67 kg) of weakfish during any one day or trip, whichever is longer, in the EEZ when using a mesh size less than 3 1/4-inch (8.3 cm) square stretch mesh (as measured between the centers of opposite knots when stretched taut) or 3 3/4-inch (9.5cm) diamond stretch mesh for finfish trawls and 2 7/8-inch (7.3 cm) stretch mesh for gillnets.

(5) Fish using a flynet in the EEZ off North Carolina in the area bounded as follows:

(i) On the north by a straight line connecting points 35&#xB0;10.8&#x2032; N. lat., 75&#xB0;29.2&#x2032; W. long. (3 nm off Cape Hatteras) and 35&#xB0;03.5&#x2032; N. lat., 75&#xB0;11.8&#x2032; W. long. (20 nm off Cape Hatteras).

(ii) The east by a straight line connecting points 35&#xB0;03.5&#x2032; N. lat., 75&#xB0;11.8&#x2032; W. long. (20 nm off Cape Hatteras) and 33&#xB0;21.1&#x2032; N. lat., 77&#xB0;57.5&#x2032; W. long., (about 30 nm off Cape Fear on the extension of the North Carolina/South Carolina state line into the EEZ).

(iii) On the south by a straight line connecting points 33&#xB0;21.1&#x2032; N. lat., 77&#xB0;57.5&#x2032; W. long., and 33&#xB0;48.8&#x2032; N. lat., 78&#xB0;29.7&#x2032; W. long. (3 nm off Little River Inlet on the North Carolina/South Carolina state line).

(iv) On the west by state waters.

(6) Possess any weakfish in the closed area of the EEZ, as described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, when fishing with shrimp trawls or crab trawls.

(7) Land weakfish for commercial purposes caught in the EEZ in any state other than Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, or North Carolina.
