
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart J - Standards for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds to the United States
###### ยง 14.105 Consignment to carrier.

(a) No carrier shall accept any live wild mammal or bird for transport to the United States that has not been examined within 10 days prior to commencement of transport to the United States by a veterinarian certified as qualified by the national government of the initial country from which the mammal or bird is being exported. If the national government of such country does not certify veterinarians, then the veterinarian must be certified or licensed by a local government authority designated by the national government as authorized to certify veterinarians.

(b)(1) A certificate of veterinary medical inspection, signed by the examining veterinarian, stating that the animal has been examined, is healthy, appears to be free of any communicable disease, and is able to withstand the normal rigors of transport must accompany the mammal or bird; the certificate should include the veterinarian's license number, certification number, or equivalent. A mammal in the last third of its pregnancy, if this is detectable using professionally accepted standards, shall not be accepted for transport to the United States except for medical treatment and unless the examining veterinarian certifies in writing that the animal has been examined, the state of pregnancy has been evaluated, and that, despite the medical condition requiring treatment, the animal is physically able to withstand the normal rigors of transportation to the United States.

(2) A nursing mother with young, an unweaned mammal unaccompanied by its mother, or an unweaned bird shall be transported only if the primary purpose is for needed medical treatment and upon certification in writing by the examining veterinarian that the treatment is necessary and the animal is able to withstand the normal rigors of transport. Such an unweaned mammal or bird shall not be transported to the United States for medical treatment unless it is accompanied at all times by and completely accessible to a veterinary attendant.

(c) A sick or injured wild mammal or bird shall be permitted transport to the United States only if the primary purpose of such transport is for needed medical treatment and upon certification in writing by the examining veterinarian that the treatment is necessary and the animal is able to withstand the normal rigors of travel in its present condition. A sick or injured animal shall be accompanied at all times throughout the transport process by a veterinary attendant qualified to care for and treat it, with continuous access to the animal. This individual shall be in possession of or have ready access to all medications to be administered during the transport.

(d) No carrier shall accept any wild mammal or bird for transport to the United States presented by the shipper less than 2 hours or more than 6 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the conveyance on which it is to be transported. The carrier shall notify the crew of the presence of live animal shipments.
