
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart J - Standards for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds to the United States
###### ยง 14.108 Food and water.

(a) No carrier shall accept any wild mammal or bird for transport to the United States unless written instructions from the shipper concerning the animal's food and water requirements are securely affixed to the outside of its primary enclosure. Such instructions shall be consistent with professionally accepted standards of care and include specifically the quantity of water required, the amount and type of food required, and the frequency of feeding and watering necessary to ensure that the animal is transported humanely and healthfully.

(b) A mammal or bird requiring drinking water shall have uncontaminated water suitable for drinking made available to it at all times prior to commencement of transport to the United States, during intermediate stopovers, and upon arrival in the United States, or as directed by the shipper's written instructions.

(c) A mammal or bird that obtains moisture from fruits or other food shall be provided such food prior to commencement of transport to the United States, during stopovers, and upon arrival in the United States, or as directed by the shipper's written instructions.

(d) During a stopover or while still in the custody of the carrier after arrival in the United States, a mammal or bird in transit shall be observed no less frequently than once every four hours and given food and water according to the instructions required by ยง 14.108(a).

(e) Suitable and sufficient food shall be made available during transport.

(f) Additional requirements for feeding and watering particular kinds of animals are found below in the specifications for the various groups.
