
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart J - Standards for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds to the United States
###### ยง 14.109 Care in transit.

(a) During transportation to the United States, including any stopovers during transport, the carrier shall visually inspect each primary enclosure not less than once every 4 hours, or in the case of air transport, every 4 hours whenever the cargo hold is accessible. During such inspections, the carrier shall verify that the ambient air temperature is within allowable limits (see ยง 14.109(b)), that enclosures have not been damaged, that adequate ventilation is being provided, and when transport is by air, that air pressure suitable to support live animals is maintained within the cargo area (pressure equivalent to a maximum altitude of 8000 feet). During these observations the carrier shall also determine whether any animals are in obvious distress as described in documents attached to the enclosure. The absence of such a document or the absence of information as to signs of distress shall not remove this responsibility. The carrier shall attempt to correct any condition causing distress and shall consult the shipper concerning any possible need for veterinary care if no veterinary attendant is traveling with the shipment; if the shipper cannot be reached in the case of an emergency, qualified veterinary care should be provided. A veterinarian or qualified attendant traveling with the shipment shall be provided access to the animal.

(b) Unless otherwise specified in writing by the examining veterinarian the ambient air temperature in a holding area, transporting device, conveyance or terminal facility containing mammals or birds shall not be allowed to fall below 12.8 degrees C (55 degrees F) nor to exceed 26.7 degrees C (80 degrees F). Auxiliary ventilation shall be provided when the ambient air temperature is 23.9 degrees C (75 degrees F) or higher. In the case of penguins and auks, the ambient air temperature shall not be allowed to exceed 18.3 degrees C (65 degrees F) at any time, and auxiliary ventilation shall be provided when the ambient air temperature exceeds 15.6 degrees C (60 degrees F). In the case of polar bears and sea otters, ambient air temperature shall not be allowed to exceed 10 degrees C (50 degrees F).
