
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 14 - IMPORTATION, EXPORTATION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
##### Subpart J - Standards for the Humane and Healthful Transport of Wild Mammals and Birds to the United States
###### ยง 14.111 Handling.

(a) Care shall be exercised to avoid handling the primary enclosure in a manner likely to cause physical or psychological trauma to the mammal or bird.

(b) A primary enclosure used to move any mammal or bird shall not be dropped, tipped excessively, or otherwise mishandled, and shall not be stacked or placed in a manner that may reasonably be expected to result in its falling or being tipped.

(c) Animals incompatible with one another shall not be crated together or held in close proximity.

(d) Transport of mammals or birds to the United States shall be accomplished by the carrier in the most expeditious manner, with the fewest stopovers possible, and without unnecessary delays.

(e) Consistent with other procedures and requirements of the carrier, live wild mammals or birds shall be last loaded and first unloaded from a conveyance.

(f) A carrier shall not allow mammals or birds to remain for extended periods of time outside a holding area and shall move them between a holding area and a conveyance as expeditiously as possible. A carrier or shipper maintaining mammals or birds in a holding area, or transporting them to or from a holding area or between a holding area and a conveyance, shall provide the following:

(1) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to protect animals from the direct rays of the sun.

(2) Shelter from precipitation. Animals shall be provided protection so that they remain dry during rain, snow, or other forms of precipitation.

(3) Shelter from cold. Animals shall be provided protection from cold. Protection shall include, but not be limited to, that provided by covering and/or heating of transporting devices, holding areas, conveyances or terminal facilities.

(4) Protection from harassment. Animals shall be protected from disturbances, including, but not limited to, harassment by humans, other animals, or machinery that makes noise, emits fumes, heat, or light, or causes vibration.
