
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Interagency Cooperation
###### ยง 17.99 Critical habitat; plants on the Hawaiian Islands.
####### Oahu.,http://www.fws.gov/pacificislands,http://www.regulations.gov

(i)Critical habitat units are described below. Maps were created in GIS, with coordinates in UTM Zone 4 with units in meters using North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83). The maps in this entry, as modified by any accompanying regulatory text, establish the boundaries of the critical habitat designation. The coordinates or plot points or both on which each map is based are available to the public at the Service's Internet site,; atat Docket No. FWS-R1-ES-2010-0043; and at the field office responsible for the designation. You may obtain field office location information by contacting one of the Service regional offices, the addresses of which are listed at 50 CFR 2.2. Existing manmade features and structures, such as buildings, roads, railroads, airports, runways, other paved areas, lawns, and other urban landscaped areas, existing trails, campgrounds and their immediate surrounding landscaped area, scenic lookouts, remote helicopter landing sites, and existing fences are not included in the critical habitat designation. Federal actions limited to those areas, therefore, would not trigger a consultation under section 7 of the Act unless they may affect the species or physical or biological features in adjacent critical habitat.

(1) Map 1-Index map follows:

(2) Oahu-Coastal-Unit 1 (958 ac; 388 ha).
