
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 16 - INJURIOUS WILDLIFE
##### Subpart B - Importation or Shipment of Injurious Wildlife
###### ยง 16.13 Importation of live or dead fish, mollusks, and crustaceans, or their eggs.
####### Oncorhynchus masou

(3) Notwithstanding ยง 16.32, all Federal agencies shall be subject to the requirements stated within this section. Live or dead uneviscerated salmonid fish (family Salmonidae), live fertilized eggs, or gametes of salmonid fish are prohibited entry into the United States for any purpose except by direct shipment accompanied by a certification that: as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the fish lots, from which the shipments originated, have been sampled; virus assays have been conducted on the samples according to methods described in paragraphs (e)(2) through (4); of this section; andvirus and the viruses causing viral hemorrhagic septicemia, infectious hematopoietic necrosis, and infectious pancreatic necrosis have not been detected in the fish stocks from which the samples were taken. In addition, live salmonid fish can be imported into the United States only upon written approval from the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

(4) All live fish eggs of salmonid fish must be disinfected within 24 hours prior to shipment to the United States. Disinfection shall be accomplished by immersion for 15 minutes in a 75 part per million (titratable active iodine) non-detergent solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone iodine (iodophor) buffered to a pH of 6.0 to 7.0. Following disinfection, the eggs shall be rinsed and maintained in water free of fish pathogens until packed and shipped. Any ice or water used for shipping shall be from pathogen-free water.

(b)(1) The certification to accompany importations as required by this section shall consist of a statement in the English language, printed or typewritten, stating that this shipment of dead uneviscerated salmonid fish, live salmonid fish, or live, disinfected fertilized eggs or gametes of salmonid fish has been tested, by the methods outlined in this section, and none of the listed viruses were detected. The certification shall be signed in the country of origin by a qualified fish pathologist designated as a certifying official by the Director.

(2) The certification must contain:

(i) The date and port of export in the country of origin and the anticipated date of arrival in the United States and port of entry;

(ii) Surface vessel name or number or air carrier and flight number;

(iii) Bill of lading number or airway bill number;

(iv) The date and location where fish, tissue, or fluid samples were collected;

(v) The date and location where virus assays were completed; and

(vi) The original handwritten signature, in ink, of the certifying official and his or her address and telephone number.

(3) Certification may be substantially in the following form:
