
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 16 - INJURIOUS WILDLIFE
##### Subpart B - Importation or Shipment of Injurious Wildlife
###### ยง 16.13 Importation of live or dead fish, mollusks, and crustaceans, or their eggs.
####### Fish sampling requirements, sample processing, and methods for virus assays,Fish sampling requirements.

(e)-(1)(i) Sampling for virus assays required by this section must be conducted within the six (6) months prior to the date of shipment of dead uneviscerated salmonid fish, live salmonid fish, live salmonid eggs, or salmonid gametes to the United States. Sampling shall be on a lot-by-lot basis with the samples from each lot distinctively marked, maintained, and processed for virus assay separately. A fish lot is defined as a group of fish of the same species and age that originated from the same discrete spawning population and that always have shared a common water supply. In the case of adult broodstock, various age groups of the same fish species may be sampled as a single lot, provided they meet the other conditions previously stated and have shared the same container(s) for at least 1 year prior to the sampling date.

(ii) In a sample, or sub-sample of a given lot, collection of 10 or more moribund fish shall be given first preference. The remainder of fish required for collection shall be randomly selected live fish from all containers occupied by the lot being sampled. Moribund fish shall be collected and processed separately from randomly selected fish. In the event the sample is taken from adult broodstock of different ages that share the same container, first preference shall be given to collecting samples from the older fish.

(iii) The minimum sample numbers collected from each lot must be in accordance with a plan that provides 95 percent confidence that at least one fish, with a detectable level of infection, will be collected and will be present in the sample if the assumed minimum prevalence of infection equals or exceeds 2 percent. A total of 150 fish collected proportionately from among all containers shared by the lot usually meets this requirement. A sampling strategy based on a presumed pathogen prevalence of 5 percent (60 fish) may be used to meet sampling requirements for shipments of gametes, fertilized eggs, or uneviscerated dead fish; provided that in the previous 2 years no disease outbreaks caused by a pathogen of concern have occurred at the facility from which the shipment originated and all stocks held at the facility have been inspected at least four times during that period (at intervals of approximately 6 months) and no pathogens of concern detected.

(iv) Fish must be alive when collected and processed within 48 hours after collection. Tissue and fluid samples shall be stored in sealed, aseptic containers and kept at 4 &#xB0;Celsius (C.) or on ice but not frozen.

(v) Tissue collection shall be as follows:

(A) Sac Fry and fry to 4 centimeter (cm): Assay entire fish. If present, remove the yolk sac.

(B) Fish 4-6 cm: Assay entire visceral mass including kidney.

(C) Fish longer than 6 cm: Assay kidney and spleen in approximately equal weight proportions.

(D) Spawning adult broodstock: Assay kidney and spleen tissues from males and/or females and ovarian fluid from females. Ovarian fluid may comprise up to 50 percent of the samples collected.
