
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 16 - INJURIOUS WILDLIFE
##### Subpart B - Importation or Shipment of Injurious Wildlife
###### § 16.13 Importation of live or dead fish, mollusks, and crustaceans, or their eggs.
####### General sample processing requirements.

(2)(i) Ovarian fluid samples shall be collected from each spawning female separately. All samples from individual fish shall be measured to ensure that similar quantities from each fish are combined if samples are pooled. Ovarian fluid samples from no more than five fish may be combined to form a pool.

(ii) Whole fry (less yolk sacs), viscera, and kidney and spleen tissues from no more than five fish may be similarly pooled.

(iii) Antibiotics and antifungal agents may be added to ovarian fluid or tissue samples to control microbial contaminant growth at the time of sample collection. Final concentrations shall not exceed 200-500 micrograms/milliliter (µg/ml) of Gentamycin, 800 international units/milliliter (IU/ml) of penicillin, or 800 µg/ml of streptomycin. Antifungal agent concentrations should not exceed 200 IU/ml of mycostatin (Nystatin) of 20 µg/ml of amphotericin B (Fungizone).

(iv) Sample temperature must be maintained between 4 at 15 &#xB0;C. during processing. Use separate sets of sterile homogenization and processing equipment to process fluids or tissues from each fish lot sampled. Processing equipment need not be sterilized between samples within a single lot.

(v) Homogenized tissue samples may be diluted 1:10 with buffered cell culture medium (pH 7.4-7.8) containing antibiotics and antifungal agents not exceeding the concentrations described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section. Centrifuge tissue suspensions and ovarian fluid samples 4 &#xB0;C. at 2,500 x gravity (g) (relative centrifugal force) for 15 minutes. Resulting supernatant solutions can be stored overnight at 4 &#xB0;C.

(vi) At the time of inoculation onto cell cultures, total dilution of processed tissue samples must not exceed 1:100 ((volume to volume) (v/v)); total dilution of ovarian fluid samples must not exceed 1:20 (v/v). In samples inoculated onto cell cultures, the final antibiotic concentration shall not exceed 100 µg/ml of Gentamicin, 100 IU/ml of penicillin, or 100 µg/ml of streptomycin and antifungal agent concentrations should not exceed 25 IU/ml of mycostatin (Nystatin) or 2.5 µg/ml of amphotericin B (Fungizone).
