
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 16 - INJURIOUS WILDLIFE
##### Subpart B - Importation or Shipment of Injurious Wildlife
###### § 16.13 Importation of live or dead fish, mollusks, and crustaceans, or their eggs.
####### Cell culture procedures.

(3)(i) Both epithelioma papulosum cyprini (EPC) and chinook salmon embryo (CHSE-214) cell lines must be maintained and used in all virus assays. Susceptible, normal appearing, and rapidly dividing cell cultures shall be selected. Penicillin (100 IU/ml), streptomycin (100 µg/ml), and antifungal agents, such as mycostatin/Nystatin (25 IU/ml) or amphotericin B/Fungizone (2.5 µg/ml), are permitted in media used for cell culture and virus assay work.

(ii) Cell cultures shall be seeded and grown, at optimum temperatures, to 80-90 percent confluence in 24-well plates for virus assay work.

(iii) Decant the medium from the required number of 24-well plates of each cell line, and inoculate four replicate wells per cell line with .10 ml per well of each processed sample. When all wells have been inoculated, tilt plates to spread the inocula evenly. Incubate inoculated plates for 1 hour at 15 &#xB0;C. for sample contact. After the 1 hour contact add cell culture medium. Medium shall be buffered or cells incubated so that a pH between 7.4 and 7.8 is maintained. All cell culture assays shall be incubated, without overlays, at 15 &#xB0;C. for 21 days.
