
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.105 Permits and exceptions.

(a) The Director may issue permits allowing the permittee to engage in any activity otherwise prohibited by this subpart. Such permits shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of ยง 17.22 of this part. Such permits shall be issued only for scientific purposes or for the enhancement of propagation or survival. All of the provisions of ยง 17.22 shall apply to the issuance of such permits, including those provisions which incorporate other sections by reference. Compliance with this paragraph does not by itself constitute compliance with any applicable requirements of part 18.

(b) Any authorized officer may engage in any activity otherwise prohibited by this subpart if:

(1) The officer is acting in the performance of his or her official duties; and

(2) The activity is being conducted to directly protect any manatees, to enhance the propagation or survival of manatees, or is reasonably required to enforce the other provisions of this subpart.

(c) Any person may engage in any activity otherwise prohibited by this subpart if such activity is reasonably necessary to prevent the loss of life or property due to weather conditions or other reasonably unforeseen circumstances, or to render necessary assistance to persons or property.

(d) Any waterborne activity which would otherwise be prohibited by this subpart may be engaged in if it is conducted by or under a contract with a Federal agency and if the Secretary of Defense, in accordance with section 7(j) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536(j)) makes a finding that such activity is necessary for reasons of national security. Such a finding must be made prior to the beginning of the activity or the designation of the protection area, whichever occurs later; except that in the case of an emergency establishment of a protection area under ยง 17.106, the finding must be made within 10 days after the beginning of the activity or the designation of the protection area, whichever occurs later.
