
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.108 List of designated manatee protection areas.
####### Exceptions.

(b)(1) Adjoining property owners, their guests, employees, and their designees (including but not limited to contractors and lessees) may engage in watercraft access and property maintenance activities through manatee sanctuaries (set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(11) of this section) and designated "no-entry areas" in the Kings Bay Manatee Refuge (set forth in paragraph (c)(14) of this section). Use of sanctuary and no-entry area waters is restricted to authorized individuals accessing adjoining properties, storing watercraft, and maintaining property and waterways. Maintenance activities include those actions necessary to maintain property and waterways, subject to any Federal, State, and local government permitting requirements.

(2) Authorized individuals must obtain a sticker or letter of authorization from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service identifying them as individuals authorized to enter no-entry areas that adjoin their property. Stickers must be placed in a conspicuous location to readily identify authorized watercraft. Individuals with a letter of authorization must have a valid letter in their possession when accessing no-entry areas.

(3) Authorized individuals must conduct any authorized boating activity within these areas at idle or no-wake speeds.
