
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.108 List of designated manatee protection areas.
####### The Peace River Manatee Refuge.

(7)(i) The Peace River Manatee Refuge is described as all waters of the Peace River and certain associated water bodies north and east of the U.S. Highway 41, Charlotte and De Soto Counties, Florida; containing approximately 1.698.11 ha (4,196.11 acres).

(ii) In the Peace River in Charlotte County, watercraft are required to travel at slow speed within a posted shoreline buffer between the US Highway 41 and I-75 bridges. The buffer is approximately 300 meters (1,000 feet) from shore except in a slightly larger area north and west of I-75 to be consistent with recently adopted Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission's regulations. Watercraft are allowed to travel at a maximum speed of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) year-round outside the buffer. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of slow speed within the posted shoreline buffer between the U.S. Highway 41 and I-75 bridges and are further prohibited from operating in excess of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) outside the buffer throughout the year.

(iii) In the Peace River within Charlotte County and upstream of I-75 to red channel marker "14," watercraft are required to travel at slow speed outside of the marked navigation channel. Watercraft are allowed to travel at a maximum speed of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) year-round inside the marked navigation channel. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of slow speed in areas outside of the navigation channel and are further prohibited from traveling in excess of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) inside the marked navigation channel, year-round.

(iv) In the waters of the Peace River in Charlotte and De Soto Counties upstream of red channel marker "14," watercraft are allowed to travel at a maximum speed of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) year-round. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour), year-round, in this area.

(v) Within the waters of Jim Long Lake and Hunter Creek in Charlotte and De Soto Counties, watercraft are required to travel at slow speed year-round. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of slow speed in this area, year-round.

(vi) Within the waters of Deep Creek in Charlotte and De Soto Counties, watercraft are required to travel at slow speed year-round. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of slow speed in this area, year-round.

(vii) Within the waters of Shell Creek in Charlotte County, watercraft are required to travel at slow speed year-round with the following exception. Should a U.S. Coast Guard or State of Florida approved marked navigation channel be established in that portion of Shell Creek approximately 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) downstream of the Seaboard Railroad trestles, watercraft will be allowed to travel at a maximum speed of 40 kilometers per hour (25 miles per hour) in this section of Shell Creek upon posting by the Fish and Wildlife Service or the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Watercraft are prohibited from traveling in excess of slow speed in this area, year-round.

(viii) Map of the Peace River Manatee Refuge follows (see Peace River Manatee Refuge):
