
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.108 List of designated manatee protection areas.
####### The Lower St. Johns River Manatee Refuge.

(11)(i) The Lower St. Johns River Manatee Refuge is described as portions of the St. Johns River and adjacent waters in Duval, Clay, and St. Johns Counties from Sandfly Point (the intersection of the right descending bank of the Trout River and the left descending bank of the St. Johns River) and Reddie Point, as marked, upstream to the mouth of Peter's Branch, including Doctors Lake, in Clay County on the western shore, and to the southern shore of the mouth of Julington Creek in St. Johns County on the eastern shore. A map showing the refuge and two maps showing specific areas of the refuge are at paragraph (11)(vi) of this section.

(ii) In the St. Johns River from Sandfly Point on the left descending bank of the St. Johns River and Reddie Point on the right descending bank of the St. Johns River, upstream to the Hart Bridge, a distance of approximately 5.5 miles (8.8 km), watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed, year-round, within 300 feet (91 m) of the shoreline on the left descending bank of the St. Johns River and within a buffer as marked, typically about 1,000 feet (305 m) from the shoreline along the right descending bank of the river. The slow speed designation also includes that portion of the river between Exchange Island and the right descending bank, a marked buffer approximately 300 feet (91 m) along the west (channel-ward) shoreline of Exchange Island, and a portion of the Arlington River as marked. Watercraft are also required to proceed at not more than 25 miles per hour (40 km/h), year round, in the area posted as such between these slow speed shoreline buffers. See map of "St. Johns River Bridges Area" in paragraph (11)(vi) of this section.

(iii) From the Hart Bridge to the Main Street Bridge, a distance of approximately 2 miles (3.2 km), watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed, year-round, outside the marked navigation channel and at speeds of not more than 25 miles per hour (40 km/h) in the marked channel (from Channel Marker "81" to the Main Street Bridge, the channel is defined as the line of sight extending west from Channel Markers "81" and "82" to the fenders of the Main Street Bridge). See map of "St. Johns River Bridges Area" in paragraph (11)(vi) of this section.

(iv) From the Main Street Bridge to the Fuller Warren Bridge, a distance of approximately 1 mile (1.6 km), shoreline to shoreline, watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed (channel included), year-round. See map of "St. Johns River Bridges Area" in paragraph (11)(vi) of this section.

(v) Upstream of the Fuller Warren Bridge: for a distance of approximately 19.3 miles (31.1 km) along the left descending bank of the St. Johns River, watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed, year-round, in a 700-foot (213 m) to 1,000-foot (305 m) as-marked, shoreline buffer from the Fuller Warren Bridge to the south bank of the mouth of Peter's Branch in Clay County; for a distance of approximately 20.2 miles (32.5 km) along the right descending bank of the St. Johns River, watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed, year round, in a 700-foot (213 m) to 1,000-foot (305 m) as marked, shoreline buffer from the Fuller Warren Bridge to the south bank of the mouth of Julington Creek in St. Johns County (defined as a line north of a western extension of the Nature's Hammock Road North); and in Doctors Lake in Clay County watercraft are required to proceed at slow speed, year-round, in a 700-foot (213 m) to 900-foot (274 m) as-marked, shoreline buffer (approximately 12.9 miles (20.8 km)). See map of "Lower St. Johns River" in paragraph (11)(vi) of this section.

(vi) Three maps of the Lower St. Johns River Manatee Refuge follow:
