
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.108 List of designated manatee protection areas.
####### Expanded temporary no-entry area (November 15 through March 31).

(v)When manatees exceed the capacity of an existing manatee sanctuary or shift usage around an existing manatee sanctuary or shift usage to Three Sisters Springs, House Spring, Jurassic Spring, and Idiot's Delight Number 2 Spring, due to water or weather or other conditions, we will designate "no-entry" areas from November 15 through March 31 as appropriate and necessary around any of these sites. The determination to designate and subsequently remove no-entry areas around existing manatee sanctuaries and Three Sisters Springs, House Spring, Jurassic Spring, and Idiot's Delight Number 2 Spring within the Kings Bay Manatee Refuge will be based on aerial survey observations of manatees using the existing sanctuary sites, current weather information, and other sources of credible, relevant information. We will designate no-entry areas within Kings Bay Manatee Refuge and outside of existing sanctuaries as follows:

(A) For the sanctuaries set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, to a distance not to exceed 100 feet from the existing sanctuary boundary.

(B) For the Three Sisters Springs Sanctuary, to a distance not to exceed 400 feet from the existing boundary. We do not intend to completely mark off the manmade channel. Expansions could occur directly around the existing sanctuary and north into the area locally known as Three Sisters Springs.

(C) For House Spring and Jurassic Spring, an area that does not exceed 100 feet from the associated spring vents.

(D) For Idiot's Delight Number 2 Spring, an area that does not exceed 25 feet from the associated spring vent. Any temporary designation will be configured to avoid the manmade channel in the canal and will not block access into Three Sisters Springs.
