
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart J - Manatee Protection Areas
###### ยง 17.108 List of designated manatee protection areas.
####### Prohibited activities (year-round).

(ix)We specifically identify and prohibit the activities set forth in this paragraph to prevent the take of one or more manatees by individuals engaged in waterborne activities while in the water, in boats, or on-shore within the Kings Bay Manatee Refuge. In regard to these prohibited activities, we consider a resting manatee to be a mostly motionless manatee that rises to breathe from the water bottom, in the water column, or on the water's surface. While resting, a manatee may make minor changes in its posture and may slightly shift its position. Minor changes in posture occur when resting manatees breathe or roll. Resting manatees may also make slight movements with their flippers or tail to compensate for drift, etc. Prohibited activities include:

(A) Chasing or pursuing manatee(s).

(B) Disturbing or touching a resting or feeding manatee(s).

(C) Diving from the surface on to a resting or feeding manatee(s).

(D) Cornering or surrounding or attempting to corner or surround a manatee(s).

(E) Riding, holding, grabbing, or pinching or attempting to ride, hold, grab, or pinch a manatee(s).

(F) Poking, prodding, or stabbing or attempting to poke, prod, or stab a manatee(s) with anything, including your hands and feet.

(G) Standing on or attempting to stand on manatee(s).

(H) Separating a mother and calf or attempting to separate a mother and calf.

(I) Separating manatee(s) from a group or attempting to separate manatee(s) from a group.

(J) Giving manatee(s) anything to eat or drink or attempting to give manatee(s) anything to eat or drink.

(K) Actively initiating contact with belted or tagged manatee(s) and associated gear, including any belts, harnesses, tracking devices, or antennae.

(L) Interfering with rescue and research activities.
