
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 18 - MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Special Exceptions
###### ยง 18.33 Procedures for issuance of permits and modification, suspension, or revocation thereof.

(a) Whenever application for a permit is received by the director which the director deems sufficient, he shall, as soon as practicable, publish a notice thereof in theSuch notice shall set forth a summary of the information contained in such application. Any interested party may, within 30 days after the date of publication of such notice, submit to the director his written data or views with respect to the taking or importation proposed in such application and may request a hearing in connection with the action to be taken thereon.

(b) If the request for a hearing is made within the 30-day period referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, or if the director determines that a hearing would otherwise be advisable, the director may, within 60 days after the date of publication of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, afford to such requesting party or parties an opportunity for a hearing. Such hearing shall also be open to participation by any interested members of the public. Notice of the date, time, and place of such hearing shall be published in thenot less than 15 days in advance of such hearing. Any interested person may appear in person or through representatives at the hearing and may submit any relevant material, data, views, comments, arguments, or exhibits. A summary record of the hearing shall be kept.

(c) As soon as practicable but not later than 30 days after the close of the hearing (or if no hearing is held, as soon as practicable after the end of the 30 days succeeding publication of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section the director shall issue or deny issuance of the permit. Notice of the decision of the director shall be published in thewithin 10 days after the date of such issuance or denial. Such notice shall include the date of the issuance or denial and indicate where copies of the permit, if issued, may be obtained.

(d) Any permit shall be subject to modification, suspension, or revocation by the director in whole or in part in accordance with these regulations and the terms of such permits. The permittee shall be given written notice by registered mail, return receipt requested, of any proposed modification, suspension, or revocation. Such notice shall specify:

(1) The action proposed to be taken along with a summary of the reasons therefor;

(2) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 558, the steps which the permittee may take to demonstrate or achieve compliance with all lawful requirements; and

(3) That the permittee is entitled to a hearing thereon if a written request for such a hearing is received by the Director within 10 days after receipt of the aforesaid notice or such other later date as may be specified in the notice to the permittee. The time and place of the hearing, if requested by the permittee, shall be determined by the director and a written notice thereof given to the permittee by registered mail, return receipt requested, not less than 15 days prior to the date of hearing specified. The director may, in his discretion, allow participation at the hearing by interested members of the public. The permittee and other parties participating may submit all relevant material, data, views, comments, arguments, and exhibits at the hearing. A summary record shall be kept of any such hearing.

(e) The Director shall make a decision regarding the proposed modification, suspension, or revocation, as soon as practicable after the close of the hearing, or if no hearing is held, as soon as practicable after the close of the 10 day period during which a hearing could have been requested. Notice of the modification, suspension, or revocation shall be published in thewithin 10 days from the date of the Director's decision. In no event shall the proposed action take effect until notice of the Director's decision is published in the
