
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 18 - MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart G - Notice and Hearing on Section 103 Regulations
###### ยง 18.87 Direct testimony.

(a) Only direct testimony submitted as provided in these regulations and introduced at the hearing by a witness shall be considered part of the record. Such direct testimony, when written, shall not be read into evidence but shall become a part of the record subject to exclusion of irrelevant and immaterial parts thereof.

(b) The witness introducing direct testimony shall:

(1) State his name, address and occupation;

(2) State qualifications for introducing the direct testimony. If an expert, the witness shall briefly state the scientific or technical training which qualifies him as an expert;

(3) Identify the direct testimony previously submitted in accordance with these regulations; and

(4) Submit to appropriate cross- and direct-examination. Cross-examination shall be by a party whose interests are adverse on the issue presented to the witness if the witness is a party, or to the interests of the party who presented the witness.

(c) A party shall be deemed to have waived the right to introduce direct-testimony if such party fails to present a witness to introduce the direct-testimony.

(d) Official notice may be taken of such matters as are judicially noticed by the courts of the United States. Parties shall be given adequate notice, by the presiding officer, at the hearing, of matters so noticed and shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are inaccurate or are erroneously noticed.
