
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 18 - MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart G - Notice and Hearing on Section 103 Regulations
###### ยง 18.90 Recommended decision, certification of the transcript and submission of comments on the recommended decision.

(a) Promptly after expiration of the period for receiving written briefs, the presiding officer shall make a recommended decision based on the record and transmit the decision to the Director. The recommended decision shall include:

(1) A statement containing a description of the history of the proceedings;

(2) Findings on the issues of fact with the reasons therefor; and

(3) Rulings on issues of law.

(b) The presiding officer shall also transmit to the Director the transcript of the hearing, the original and all copies of the direct testimony, and written comments. The presiding officer shall attach to the original transcript of the hearing a certificate stating that to the best of his knowledge and belief the transcript is a true transcript of the testimony given at the hearing except in such particulars as are specified.

(c) Upon receipt of the recommended decision, the Director shall send a copy thereof to each party by certified mail and shall publish in thea notice of the receipt of the recommended decision by the Director. The notice shall include:

(1) A summary of the recommended decision;

(2) A statement that any interested person may file written comments on the recommended decision with the Director by a specified date;

(3) The time(s) and place(s) where the record of the hearing transmitted to the Director pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may be inspected by interested persons; and

(4) The time(s) and place(s) where the recommended decision may be inspected and/or copied by interested persons.

(d) Within thirty days after the notice of receipt of the recommended decision has been published in theany interested person may file with the Director any written comments on the recommended decision. All comments, including recommendations from or consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission, must be submitted during the thirty-day period to the Director at the above address.
