
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 18 - MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart K - Nonlethal Taking of Marine Mammals Incidental to Oil and Gas Activities in Cook Inlet, Alaska
###### ยง 18.137 Mitigation.
####### Measures for vessel-based activities.

(d)(1) Vessel operators must take every precaution to avoid harassment of sea otters when a vessel is operating near these animals.

(2) Vessels must remain at least 500 m from rafts of otters unless safety is a factor.

(3) Vessels must reduce speed and maintain a distance of 100 m (328 ft) from all sea otters unless safety is a factor.

(4) Vessels must not be operated in such a way as to separate members of a group of sea otters from other members of the group.

(5) When weather conditions require, such as when visibility drops, vessels must adjust speed accordingly to avoid the likelihood of injury to sea otters.

(6) Vessels in transit and support vessels must use established navigation channels or commonly recognized vessel traffic corridors, and must avoid alongshore travel in shallow water (<20 m) whenever practicable.

(7) All vessels must avoid areas of active or anticipated subsistence hunting for sea otters as determined through community consultations.

(8) Vessel operators must be provided written guidance for avoiding collisions and minimizing disturbances to sea otters. Guidance will include measures identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
