
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 19 - AIRBORNE HUNTING
##### Subpart D - State Permits and Annual Report Requirements
###### ยง 19.32 Annual reporting requirements.

(a) Any State issuing permits to persons to engage in airborne hunting or harassing of wildlife or any State whose employees or agents participate in airborne hunting or harassing of wildlife for purposes of administering or protecting land, water, wildlife, livestock, domestic animals, human life or crops, shall file with the Director, an annual report on or before July 1 for the preceding calendar year ending December 31.

(b) The annual report required by this section shall contain the following information as to each such permit issued:

(1) The name and address of each person to whom a permit was issued.

(2) Permit number and inclusive dates during which permit was valid.

(3) The aircraft number of the aircraft used and the location where such aircraft was based.

(4) Common name and number of the wildlife for which authorization to take was given and a description of the area from which the wildlife were authorized to be taken.

(5) The purpose for which the permit was issued, specifically identifying whether the permit was issued to protect land, water, wildlife, livestock, domestic animals, crops, or human life.

(6) The common name and number of wildlife taken by permittees and State employees or agents.

(c) A compilation of all annual reports required by this section shall be made by the Director and furnished to any State filing such annual report.
