
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Permit Provisions
###### ยง 21.82 Falconry standards and falconry permitting.
####### Haliaeetus leucocephalus,Haliaeetus albicilla,Haliaeetus pelagicus,Aquila chrysaetos

(F) You may possess a raptor of any Falconiform or Strigiform species, including wild, captive-bred, or hybrid individuals, except a federally listed threatened or endangered species, a bald eagle (), a white-tailed eagle (), a Steller's sea-eagle (), or a golden eagle ().

(G) You do not need to capture a wild raptor yourself; it can be transferred to you by another falconry permittee.

(H) You may not possess a raptor taken from the wild as a nestling.

(I) You may not possess a bird that is imprinted on humans.

(J) Your raptor facilities must pass inspection by your State, tribe, or territory before you may be granted a permit.

(ii) Requirements and possession options for a General Falconer.

(A) You must be at least 16 years of age.

(B) If you are 16 or 17 years of age, a parent or legal guardian must sign your application and must be legally responsible for your activities.

(C) You must submit a document from a General Falconer or Master Falconer (preferably your sponsor) to your State, tribal, or territorial wildlife agency stating that you have practiced falconry with raptor(s) at the Apprentice Falconer level or equivalent for at least 2 years, including maintaining, training, flying, and hunting the raptor(s) for least 4 months in each year. That practice may include capture and release of falconry raptors.

(D) You may not substitute any falconry school program or education to shorten the period of 2 years at the Apprentice level.

(E) You may take and possess any species of Falconiform or Strigiform except a golden eagle, a bald eagle, a white-tailed eagle, or a Steller's sea-eagle. You may use captive-bred individuals and hybrids of the species you are allowed to possess.

(F) Regardless of the number of State, tribal, or territorial falconry permits you have, you may possess no more than 3 raptors.

(iii) Requirements and possession options for a Master Falconer.

(A) You must have practiced falconry with your own raptor(s) at the General Falconer level for at least 5 years.

(B) You may take and possess any species of Falconiform or Strigiform except a bald eagle. However, you may take and possess a golden eagle, a white-tailed eagle, or a Steller's sea eagle only if you meet the qualifications set forth under paragraph (c)(2)(iv).

(C) You may possess any captive-bred individuals or hybrids of species your State, tribe, or territory allows you to possess for use in falconry.

(D) Regardless of the number of State, tribal, or territorial falconry permits you have, you may possess no more than 5 wild raptors, including golden eagles.

(E) You may possess any number of captive-bred raptors. However, you must train them in the pursuit of wild game and use them in hunting.

(iv) If you meet the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section for falconry you may possess up to 3 eagles of the following species: golden eagle, white-tailed eagle, or Steller's sea eagle.

(A) Your State, tribal, or territorial agency that regulates falconry must document the following before approving your request to possess an eagle to use in falconry:
