
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Permit Provisions
###### ยง 21.82 Falconry standards and falconry permitting.
####### Other restrictions on taking raptors from the wild for falconry.

(3)(i) If you are a General or Master Falconer, you may take only raptors less than 1 year of age from the wild during any period or periods specified by the State, tribe, or territory. However, you may take an American kestrel or great horned owl of any age from the wild during any period or periods specified by the State, tribe, or territory.

(ii) If you are a Master Falconer authorized to possess golden eagles for use in falconry, you may capture a golden eagle in a livestock or wildlife depredation area during the time the depredation area and associated depredation permit or depredation control order are in effect.

(A) You may capture an immature or subadult golden eagle.

(B) You may take a nestling from its nest in a livestock depredation area if a biologist representing the agency responsible for declaring the depredation area has determined that the adult eagle is preying on livestock or wildlife.

(C) You may take a nesting adult golden eagle only if a biologist representing the agency responsible for declaring the depredation area has determined that the adult eagle is preying on livestock or wildlife and that any nestling of the adult will be taken by a falconer authorized to possess it or by the biologist and transferred to an individual authorized to possess it.

(D) You must determine the locations of the livestock or wildlife depredation areas declared by USDA Wildlife Services, or published in theby the Service in response to a State governor's request. We will not notify you about them.
