
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Permit Provisions
###### ยง 21.82 Falconry standards and falconry permitting.
####### Releasing a falconry bird to the wild.

(9)You must follow all applicable State or territorial and Federal laws and regulations before releasing a falconry bird to the wild.

(i) If the raptor you wish to release is not native to the State or territory, or is a hybrid of any kind, you may not permanently release the bird to the wild. You may transfer it to another falconry permittee.

(ii) If the species you wish to release is native to the State or territory and is captive-bred, you may not release the bird to the wild unless you have permission from the State, tribe, or territory to release the bird. If you are permitted to do so, you must hack the bird (allow it to adjust) to the wild at an appropriate time of year and an appropriate location. You must remove its falconry band (if it has one) and report release of the bird by submitting the required information using one of the methods listed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iii) If the species you wish to release is native to the State and was taken from the wild, you may release the bird only at an appropriate time of year and an appropriate location. You must remove its falconry band and report release of the bird by submitting the required information using one of the methods listed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
