
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Permit Provisions
###### ยง 21.82 Falconry standards and falconry permitting.
####### Database required of States, tribes, and territories.

(k)Each State, tribe, or territory that permits falconry must maintain information in a database. The information will enable enforcement of this section.

(1) The State, tribal, or territorial database must be compatible with the database that we maintain. The State, tribal, or territorial database must contain the following information:

(i) The current address of each person with a falconry permit.

(ii) The classification of each person with a falconry permit - Apprentice Falconer, General Falconer, or Master Falconer.

(iii) The address of the falconry facilities of each person with a falconry permit.

(iv) The Federal falconry identifier number assigned via the 3-186A system to each person with a falconry permit.

(v) Whether each permittee is authorized to possess eagles.

(vi) Information on the status of each person's permit: whether it is active, suspended, or revoked.

(2) Information on each permit granted, including changes in status from Apprentice Falconer to General Falconer or General Falconer to Master Falconer, and moves of falconers or their facilities must be entered into the State's, tribe's, or territory's database within 30 days of the granting of the permit or a falconer's change in status. New additions to the State, tribal, or territorial database must be forwarded to us monthly.
