
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Permit Provisions
###### ยง 21.95 Special purpose permits.
####### Additional permit conditions.

(c)In addition to the general conditions set forth in part 13 of this subchapter B, special purpose permits shall be subject to the following conditions:

(1) Permittees shall maintain adequate records describing the conduct of the permitted activity, the numbers and species of migratory birds acquired and disposed of under the permit, and inventorying and identifying all migratory birds held on December 31 of each calendar year. Records shall be maintained at the address listed on the permit; shall be in, or reproducible in English; and shall be available for inspection by Service personnel during regular business hours. A permittee may be required by the conditions of the permit to file with the issuing office an annual report of operation. Annual reports, if required, shall be filed no later than January 31 of the calendar year following the year for which the report is required. Reports, if required, shall describe permitted activities, numbers and species of migratory birds acquired and disposed of, and shall inventory and describe all migratory birds possessed under the special purpose permit on December 31 of the reporting year.

(2) Permittees shall make such other reports as may be requested by the issuing officer.

(3) All live, captive-bred, migratory game birds possessed under authority of a valid special purpose permit shall be physically marked as defined in ยง 21.45(b) of this part.

(4) No captive-bred migratory game bird may be sold or bartered unless marked in accordance with ยง 21.45(b) of this part.

(5) No permittee may take, purchase, receive or otherwise acquire, sell, barter, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any captive-bred migratory game bird unless such permittee submits a Service form 3-186A (Migratory Bird Acquisition/Disposition Report), completed in accordance with the instructions on the form, to the issuing office within five (5) days of such transaction.

(6) No permittee, who is authorized to sell or barter migratory game birds pursuant to a permit issued under this section, may sell or barter such birds to any person unless that person is authorized to purchase and possess such migratory game birds under a permit issued pursuant to this part and part 13, or as permitted by regulations in this part.
