
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart D - Provisions for Depredating, Overabundant, or Otherwise Injurious Birds
###### ยง 21.150 Depredation order for blackbirds, cowbirds, crows, grackles, and magpies.
####### Trapping conditions.

(f)You must comply with the following conditions if you attempt to trap any species under this order.

(1) You may possess, transport, and use a lure bird or birds of the species listed in paragraph (a) that you wish to trap.

(2) You must check each trap at least once every day it is deployed.

(3) At temperatures above 80 &#xB0;Fahrenheit, the traps must provide shade for captured birds.

(4) Each trap must contain adequate food and water.

(5) You must promptly release all healthy nontarget birds that you capture.

(6) If a federally permitted wildlife rehabilitator is within 1 hour or less of your capture efforts, you must send injured or debilitated nontarget federally protected migratory birds to the rehabilitator. If no rehabilitator is closer than 1 hour away, you may euthanize an injured or debilitated bird of a nontarget species unless the species is federally listed as an endangered, threatened, or candidate species, in which case you must deliver it to a rehabilitator and report the take to the nearest U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Field Office or Special Agent.

(7) You must report captures of nontarget federally protected migratory birds in your annual report (see paragraph (i) of this section).
