
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 21 - MIGRATORY BIRD PERMITS
##### Subpart D - Provisions for Depredating, Overabundant, or Otherwise Injurious Birds
###### ยง 21.177 Control order for invasive migratory birds in Hawaii.
####### Means of take.

(c)(1) You may take cattle egrets and barn owls by means of lethal take or active nest take. Lethal take may occur by firearm or slingshot in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or lethal or live traps. Active nest take may occur by egg oiling in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section or destruction of nest material and contents (including viable eggs and chicks). Birds may be euthanized by cervical dislocation, COasphyxiation, or other recommended method in the American Veterinary Medical Association Guidelines on Euthanasia.

(2) If you use a firearm or slingshot to kill cattle egrets or barn owls under the provisions of this order, you must use nontoxic shot or nontoxic bullets to do so. See ยง 20.21(j) of this chapter for a list of approved nontoxic shot types.

(3) Eggs must be oiled with 100 percent corn oil, which is exempted from regulation under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

(4) You may use concealment (such as blinds) and luring devices (such as decoys or recorded calls) for locating, capturing, and/or taking cattle egrets or barn owls.
