
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 22 - EAGLE PERMITS
##### Subpart A - Introduction and General Requirements
###### ยง 22.4 Scope of this part.

(a)(1) You can possess or transport within the United States, without a Federal permit:

(i) Any live or dead bald eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs that were lawfully acquired before June 8, 1940; and

(ii) Any live or dead golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs that were lawfully acquired before October 24, 1962.

(2) You may not transport into or out of the United States, import, export, purchase, sell, trade, barter, or offer for purchase, sale, trade, or barter bald or golden eagles, or their parts, nests, or eggs of these lawfully acquired pre-act birds. However, you may transport into or out of the United States any lawfully acquired dead bald or golden eagles, their parts, nests, or dead eagles, if you acquire a permit issued under ยง 22.60 of this part.

(3) No exemption from any statute or regulation will apply to any offspring of these pre-act birds.

(4) You must mark all shipments containing bald or golden eagles, alive or dead, their parts, nests, or eggs as directed in ยง 14.81 of this subchapter. The markings must contain the name and address of the person the shipment is going to, the name and address of the person the shipment is coming from, an accurate list of contents by species, and the number of each species.

(b) The provisions in this part are in addition to, and are not in lieu of, other regulations of this subchapter B which may require a permit or prescribe additional restrictions or conditions for the importation, exportation, and interstate transportation of wildlife (see also part 13 of this subchapter).
