
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 22 - EAGLE PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Eagle Permit Provisions
###### ยง 22.75 What are the requirements concerning permits to take golden eagle nests?
####### How do I apply for a permit to take golden eagle nests?

(a)You must submit applications for permits to take golden eagle nests to the appropriate Regional Director-Attention: Migratory Bird Permit Office. You can find addresses for the appropriate Regional Directors in 50 CFR 2.2. We will only accept applications if you are engaged in a resource development or recovery operation, including the planning and permitting stages of an operation. Your application must contain the general information and certification required by ยง 13.12(a) of this chapter plus the following additional information:

(1) A description of the resource development or recovery operation in which the applicant is engaged.

(2) The number of golden eagle nests proposed to be taken.

(3) A description of the property on which the taking is proposed, with reference made to its exact geographic location. An appropriately scaled map or plat must be included which delineates the area of the resource development or recovery operation and identifies the exact location of each golden eagle nest proposed to be taken. The map or plat must contain enough detail so that each golden eagle nest proposed to be taken can be readily located by the Service.
