
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 22 - EAGLE PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Specific Eagle Permit Provisions
###### ยง 22.80 Permits for eagle take that is associated with, but not the purpose of, an activity.
####### Required determinations.

(f)Before we issue a permit, we must find that:

(1) The direct and indirect effects of the take and required mitigation, together with the cumulative effects of other permitted take and additional factors affecting the eagle populationwithin the eagle management unit and the local area population, are compatible with the preservation of bald eagles and golden eagles.

(2) The taking is necessary to protect an interest in a particular locality.

(3) The taking is associated with, but not the purpose of, the activity.

(4) The applicant has applied all appropriate and practicable avoidance and minimization measures to reduce impacts to eagles.

(5) The applicant has applied all appropriate and practicable compensatory mitigation measures, when required, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, to compensate for remaining unavoidable impacts after all appropriate and practicable avoidance and minimization measures have been applied.

(6) Issuance of the permit will not preclude issuance of another permit necessary to protect an interest of higher priority as set forth in paragraph (e)(7) of this section.

(7) Issuance of the permit will not interfere with an ongoing civil or criminal action concerning unpermitted past eagle take at the project.

(g) We may deny issuance of a permit if we determine that take is not likely to occur.
