
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 23.3 What other wildlife and plant regulations may apply?

(a) You may need to comply with other regulations in this subchapter that require a permit or have additional restrictions. Many CITES species are also covered by one or more parts of this subchapter or title and have additional requirements:

(1) Part 15 (exotic birds).

(2) Part 16 (injurious wildlife).

(3) Parts 17 of this subchapter and 222, 223, and 224 of this title (endangered and threatened species).

(4) Parts 18 of this subchapter and 216 of this title (marine mammals).

(5) Part 20 (migratory bird hunting).

(6) Part 21 (migratory birds).

(7) Part 22 (bald and golden eagles).

(b) If you are applying for a permit, you must comply with the general permit procedures in part 13 of this subchapter. Definitions and a list of birds protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act can be found in part 10 of this subchapter.

(c) If you are importing (including introduction from the sea), exporting, or re-exporting wildlife or plants, you must comply with the regulations in part 14 of this subchapter for wildlife or part 24 of this subchapter for plants. Activities with plants are also regulated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) and Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), in 7 CFR parts 319, 355, and 356.

(d) You may also need to comply with other Federal, State, tribal, or local requirements.
