
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart B - Prohibitions, Exemptions, and Requirements
###### ยง 23.23 What information is required on U.S. and foreign CITES documents?
####### Phytosanitary certificate.

(f)A Party may use a phytosanitary certificate as a CITES document under the following conditions:

(1) The Party has provided copies of the certificate, stamps, and seals to the Secretariat.

(2) The certificate is used only when all the following conditions are met:

(i) The plants are being exported, not re-exported.

(ii) The plants are Appendix-II species, or are hybrids of one or more Appendix-I species or taxa that are not annotated to treat hybrids as Appendix-I specimens.

(iii) The plants were artificially propagated in the exporting country.

(3) The certificate contains the following information:

(i) The scientific name of the species, including the subspecies when needed to determine the level of protection of the specimen under CITES, using standard nomenclature as it appears in the CITES Appendices or the references adopted by the CoP.

(ii) The type (such as live plant or bulb) and quantity of the specimens authorized in the shipment.

(iii) A stamp, seal, or other specific indication stating that the specimen is artificially propagated (see ยง 23.64).
