
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.36 What are the requirements for an export permit?
####### Export of certain exempt marine specimens.

(d)Article XIV(4) and (5) of the Treaty provide a limited exemption for Appendix-II marine species that are protected under another treaty, convention, or international agreement that was in force at the time CITES entered into force. When all of the following conditions are met, export of exempt Appendix-II marine wildlife or plants requires only that the shipment is accompanied by a document issued by the Management Authority of the exporting country indicating that the specimens were taken in accordance with the provisions of the other international treaty, convention, or agreement:

(1) The exporting country is a CITES Party and is a party to an international treaty, convention, or agreement that affords protection to the species and was in force on July 1, 1975.

(2) The ship that harvested the specimen is registered in the exporting country.

(3) The specimen was taken within waters under the jurisdiction of the exporting country or in the marine environment not under the jurisdiction of any country.

(4) The specimen was taken in accordance with the other international treaty, convention, or agreement, including any quotas.

(5) The shipment is accompanied by any official document required under the other international treaty, convention, or agreement or otherwise required by law.
