
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.44 What are the requirements for traveling internationally with my personally owned live wildlife?
####### Criteria.

(d)The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign certificates. When applying for a U.S. certificate, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:

(1) The traveler owns the live wildlife and it will accompany the owner.

(2) The cross-border movement will be frequent and for personal use, including, but not limited to, companionship or use in a noncommercial competition such as falconry.

(3) To apply for a U.S. certificate, the owner resides in the United States.

(4) The wildlife was legally acquired (see ยง 23.60).

(5) The owner does not intend to sell, donate, or transfer the wildlife while traveling internationally.

(6) The scientific name of the species is the standard nomenclature in the CITES Appendices or the references adopted by the CoP (see ยง 23.23).

(7) The Management Authority of the country of import has agreed to the cross-border movement.

(8) The wildlife is securely marked or uniquely identified in such a manner that the border official can verify that the specimen and CITES document correspond.

(9) The wildlife is transported and cared for in a way that minimizes risk of injury, damage to health, or cruel treatment of the specimen (see ยง 23.23).
