
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.46 What are the requirements for registering a commercial breeding operation for Appendix-I wildlife and commercially exporting specimens?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(b)The following provisions apply to the registration of U.S. and foreign commercial breeding operations for Appendix-I wildlife:

(1) If the Management Authority is satisfied that the operation in its country meets the conditions for registration in paragraph (d) of this section, it will send the request to register a breeding operation to the Secretariat.

(2) The Secretariat will verify that the application is complete and notify the Parties of the request.

(3) If any Party objects to or expresses concern about the registration within 90 days from the date of the Secretariat's notification, the Secretariat will refer the application to the Animals Committee. The Committee has 60 days to respond to objections. The Secretariat will provide the recommendations of the Committee to the Management Authority of the Party that submitted the application and the Party that objected to the registration, and will allow a further 30 days for resolution of the identified problems.

(4) If the objection is not withdrawn or the identified problems are not resolved within the 30-day period, the Secretariat will submit the application to the Standing Committee at its next regular meeting. The Standing Committee will determine whether the objection is justified and decide whether to accept the application.

(5) When the Secretariat is satisfied that the operation meets the registration requirements, it will include the operation in its register.

(6) Operations are assigned an identification number and listed in the official register. Registration is not final until the Secretariat notifies all Parties.

(7) If a Party believes that a registered operation does not meet the bred-in-captivity requirements, it may, after consultation with the Secretariat and the Party concerned, propose to the Standing Committee that the operation be deleted from the register. At its following meeting, the Standing Committee will consider the concerns raised by the objecting Party, and any comments from the registering Party and the Secretariat, and determine whether the operation should be deleted from the register. Once an operation has been deleted, it must re-apply and meet the registration requirements to be reinstated.

(8) The Management Authority, in collaboration with the Scientific Authority, of a country where any registered operation is located must monitor the operation to ensure that it continues to meet the registration requirements. In the United States, we will monitor registered operations, in part, by requiring each operation to apply for renewal and demonstrate that it continues to qualify for registration at least once every 5 years. (See paragraphs (e)(4) and (f) of this section.) The Management Authority will advise the Secretariat of any major change in the nature of the operation or in the types of products being produced for export.

(9) A Party may unilaterally request the removal of a registered operation within its jurisdiction by notifying the Secretariat.

(10) An Appendix-I specimen may not be imported for purposes of establishing or augmenting a commercial breeding operation, unless the specimen is pre-Convention (see ยง 23.45) or was bred in captivity (see ยง 23.63).
