
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.48 What are the requirements for a registered scientific institution?
####### Criteria.

(d)The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the registration of U.S. and foreign institutions for scientific exchange. To be issued a certificate of scientific exchange as a registered U.S. scientific institution, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your institution meets all of the following criteria:

(1) Collections of wildlife or plant specimens are permanently housed and professionally curated, and corresponding records are kept.

(2) Specimens are accessible to all qualified users, including those from other institutions.

(3) Specimens are properly accessioned in a permanent catalog.

(4) Records are permanently maintained for loans and transfers to and from other institutions.

(5) Specimens are acquired primarily for research that is to be reported in scientific publications, and CITES specimens are not used for commercial purposes or as decorations.

(6) Collections are prepared and arranged in a way that ensures their accessibility to researchers.

(7) Specimen labels, permanent catalogs, and other records are accurate.

(8) Specimens are legally acquired and lawfully possessed under a country's wildlife and plant laws.

(9) Appendix-I specimens are permanently and centrally housed under the direct control of the institution.
