
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.48 What are the requirements for a registered scientific institution?
####### U.S. standard conditions.

(e)In addition to the conditions in ยง 23.56, any activity conducted under a certificate of scientific exchange must meet all of the following conditions:

(1) Both scientific institutions involved in the exchange must be registered by the applicable Management Authorities (or the Secretariat in the case of a non-Party), and be included in the Secretariat's register of scientific institutions.

(2) An institution may send and receive only preserved, frozen, dried, or embedded museum specimens, herbarium specimens, or live plant materials that have been permanently and accurately recorded by one of the institutions involved in the exchange and that are traded as a noncommercial loan, donation, or exchange.

(3) An institution may use specimens acquired under a certificate of scientific exchange and their offspring only for scientific research or educational display at a scientific institution and may not use specimens for commercial purposes.

(4) The institution must keep records to show that the specimens were legally acquired.

(5) A customs declaration label must be affixed to the outside of each shipping container or package that contains all of the following:

(i) The acronym "CITES."

(ii) A description of the contents (such as "herbarium specimens").

(iii) The names and addresses of the sending and receiving registered institutions.

(iv) The signature of a responsible officer of the sending registered scientific institution.

(v) The scientific institution codes of both registered scientific institutions involved in the loan, donation, or exchange.

(6) A registered institution may destroy samples during analysis, provided that a portion of the sample is maintained and permanently recorded at a registered scientific institution for future scientific reference.
