
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.49 What are the requirements for an exhibition traveling internationally?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(b)The following general provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of a certificate for live wildlife and plants, or their parts, products, or derivatives in an exhibition that travels internationally:

(1) The Management Authority in the country of the exhibitor's primary place of business must have determined that the specimens are bred in captivity, artificially propagated, or pre-Convention and issued a traveling-exhibition certificate.

(2) The certificate must indicate that the wildlife or plant is part of a traveling exhibition.

(3) A separate certificate must be issued for each live wildlife specimen; a CITES document may be issued for more than one specimen for a traveling exhibition of live plants and dead parts, products, or derivatives of wildlife and plants.

(4) The certificate is not transferable.

(5) Parties should treat the certificate like a passport for import and export or re-export from each country, and should not collect the original certificate at the border.

(6) Parties should check specimens closely to determine that each specimen matches the certificate and ensure that each live specimen is being transported and cared for in a manner that minimizes the risk of injury, damage to health, or cruel treatment of the specimen.

(7) If offspring are born or a new specimen is acquired while the traveling exhibition is in another country, the exhibitor must obtain the appropriate CITES document for the export or re-export of the specimen from the Management Authority of that country.

(8) Upon returning home, the exhibitor may apply for a traveling-exhibition certificate for wildlife born overseas or for wildlife or plants acquired overseas.
