
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.49 What are the requirements for an exhibition traveling internationally?
####### Criteria.

(d)The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign certificates. When applying for a U.S. certificate, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:

(1) The traveling exhibition makes multiple cross-border movements, and will return to the country in which the exhibition is based before the certificate expires.

(2) The cross-border movement must be for exhibition, and not for breeding, propagating, or activities other than exhibition.

(3) The traveling exhibition is based in the country that issued the certificate.

(4) The specimen meets the criteria for a bred-in-captivity certificate, certificate for artificially propagated plants, or pre-Convention certificate.

(5) The exhibitor does not intend to sell or otherwise transfer the wildlife or plant while traveling internationally.

(6) The wildlife or plant is securely marked or identified in such a way that border officials can verify that the certificate and specimen correspond. If a microchip is used, we may, if necessary, ask the importer, exporter, or re-exporter to have equipment on hand to read the microchip at the time of import, export, or re-export.
