
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.49 What are the requirements for an exhibition traveling internationally?
####### U.S. standard conditions.

(e)In addition to the conditions in ยง 23.56, you must meet all of the following conditions:

(1) The certificate may be used by you, and you must not transfer or assign it to another person or traveling exhibition.

(2) You must transport the specimen internationally only for exhibition, not for breeding, propagating, or activities other than exhibition.

(3) You must present the certificate to the official for validation at each border crossing.

(4)For live plants, the quantity of plants must be reasonable for the purpose of the traveling exhibition.

(5) You must not sell or otherwise transfer the specimen, or any offspring born to such specimen, while traveling internationally.

(6) If the certificate is lost, stolen, or accidentally destroyed, you may obtain a replacement certificate only from the U.S. Management Authority.

(7) If you no longer own the wildlife or plants, or no longer plan to travel as a traveling exhibition, the original certificate must be immediately returned to the U.S. Management Authority.

(8) You must return the traveling exhibition to the United States before the certificate expires.
