
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.50 What are the requirements for a sample collection covered by an ATA carnet?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(c)The following general provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of a CITES document for the movement of sample collections:

(1) The Management Authority in the country where the sample collection originated must issue a CITES document that:

(i) Clearly specifies that the document was issued for a "sample collection."

(ii) Includes the condition in block 5, or an equivalent place, of the document that it is valid only if the shipment is accompanied by a valid ATA carnet and that the specimens must not be sold, donated, or otherwise transferred while outside the originating country.

(2) The number of the accompanying ATA carnet must be recorded on the CITES document, and if this number is not recorded by the Management Authority, it must be entered by a customs or other CITES enforcement official responsible for the original endorsement of the CITES document.

(3) The name and address of the exporter or re-exporter and importer must be identical, and the names of the countries to be visited must be indicated in block 5 or an equivalent place.

(4) The date of validity must not be later than that of the ATA carnet and the period of validity must not exceed 6 months from the date of issuance.

(5) At each border crossing, Parties must verify the presence of the CITES document, but allow it to remain with the shipment, and ensure that the ATA carnet is properly endorsed with an authorized stamp and signature by a customs official.

(6) The exporter or re-exporter must return the sample collection to the originating country prior to the expiration of the CITES document.

(7) Parties should check the CITES document and sample collection closely at the time of first export or re-export and upon its return to ensure that the contents of the sample collection have not been changed.

(8) For import into and export or re-export from the United States, the shipment must comply with the requirements for wildlife in part 14 of this subchapter and for plants in part 24 of this subchapter and 7 CFR parts 319, 352, and 355.
