
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.51 What are the requirements for issuing a partially completed CITES document?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(b)The following provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of partially completed CITES documents.

(1) A Management Authority may issue partially completed CITES documents only when:

(i) The permitted trade will have a negligible impact or no impact on the conservation of the species.

(ii) All provisions of CITES have been met.

(iii) The specimens are one of the following:

(A) Biological samples.

(B) Pre-Convention specimens.

(C) Specimens that qualify as bred in captivity or artificially propagated.

(D) Appendix-I specimens from registered commercial breeding operations.

(E) Appendix-I plants artificially propagated for commercial purposes.

(F) Other specimens that the Management Authority determines qualify for partially completed documents.

(2) A Management Authority may register applicants for species that may be traded under partially completed documents.

(3) Partially completed CITES documents require the permit holder to:

(i) Enter specific information on the CITES document or its annex as conditioned on the face of the CITES document.

(ii) Enter scientific names on the CITES document only if the Management Authority included an inventory of approved species on the face of the CITES document or an attached annex.

(iii) Sign the CITES document, which acts as a certification that the information entered is true and accurate.

(4) CITES documents issued for biological samples may be validated at the time of issuance provided that upon export the container is labeled with the CITES document number and indicates it contains CITES biological samples.
