
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.52 What are the requirements for replacing a lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed CITES document?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(b)The following provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of a replacement CITES document:

(1) The permittee must notify the issuing Management Authority that the document was lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed.

(2) The issuing Management Authority must be satisfied that the CITES document was lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed.

(3) The issuing Management Authority should immediately inform the Management Authority in the country of destination and, for commercial shipments, the Secretariat.

(4) If the replacement CITES document is a copy, it must indicate that it is a "replacement" and a "true copy of the original," contain a new dated original signature of a person authorized to sign CITES documents for the issuing Management Authority, and give the reason for replacement.

(5) If the replacement CITES document is a newly issued original document, it must indicate that it is a "replacement," include the number and date of issuance of the document being replaced, and give the reason for replacement.

(6) In the United States, you may not use an original single-use CITES document issued under a CITES master file or CITES annual program as a replacement document for a shipment that has already left the country.
