
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### § 23.52 What are the requirements for replacing a lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed CITES document?
####### Criteria.

(d)The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign documents.

(1) When applying for a U.S. replacement document, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:

(i) The circumstances for the lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed CITES document are reasonable.

(ii) If the shipment has already been made, the wildlife or plant was legally exported or re-exported, and the Management Authority of the importing country has indicated it will accept the replacement CITES document.

(iii) The specimens were presented to the appropriate official for inspection at the time of import and a request for a replacement CITES document was made at that time.

(2) For acceptance of foreign CITES replacement documents in the United States, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:

(i) The specimens were presented to the appropriate official for inspection at the time of import and a request for a replacement CITES document was made at that time.

(ii) The importer or the importer's agent submitted a signed, dated, and notarized statement at the time of import that describes the circumstances that resulted in the CITES document being lost, damaged, stolen, or accidentally destroyed.

(iii) The importer or the importer's agent provided a copy of the original lost, stolen, or accidentally destroyed document at the time of import showing that the document met the requirements in §§ 23.23, 23.24, and 23.25.
