
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.53 What are the requirements for obtaining a retrospective CITES document?
####### U.S. and foreign general provisions.

(b)The following provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of a retrospective CITES document:

(1) A retrospective document may not be issued for Appendix-I specimens except for certain specimens for personal use as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(2) The exporter or re-exporter must notify the Management Authority in the exporting or re-exporting country of the irregularities that have occurred.

(3) A retrospective document may be one of the following:

(i) An amended CITES document where it can be shown that the issuing Management Authority made a technical error that was not prompted by the applicant.

(ii) A newly issued CITES document where it can be shown that the applicant was misinformed by CITES officials or the circumstances in (d)(7) of this section apply and a shipment has occurred without a document.

(4) Retrospective documents can only be issued after consultation between the Management Authorities in both the exporting or re-exporting country and the importing country, including a thorough investigation of circumstances and agreement between them that criteria in paragraph (d) of this section have been met.

(5) The issuing Management Authority must provide all of the following information on any retrospective CITES document:

(i) A statement that it was issued retrospectively.

(ii) A statement specifying the reason for the issuance.

(iii) In the case of a document issued for personal use, a condition restricting sale of the specimen within 6 months following the import of the specimen.

(6) The issuing Management Authority must send a copy of the retrospective CITES document to the Secretariat.

(7) In general, except when the exporter or re-exporter and importer have demonstrated they were not responsible for the irregularities, any person who has been issued a CITES document in the past will not be eligible to receive a retrospective document.

(8) In the United States, you may not use a U.S. CITES document issued under a CITES master file or CITES annual program as a retrospective CITES document.
