
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures, Criteria, and Conditions
###### ยง 23.53 What are the requirements for obtaining a retrospective CITES document?
####### Criteria.

(d)The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign documents. When applying for a U.S. document, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your activity meets all of the following criteria:

(1) The specimens were exported or re-exported without a CITES document or with a CITES document that contained technical errors as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section.

(2) The specimens were presented to the appropriate official for inspection at the time of import and a request for a retrospective CITES document was made at that time.

(3) The export or re-export and import of the specimens was otherwise in compliance with CITES and the relevant national legislation of the countries involved.

(4) The importing Management Authority has agreed to accept the retrospectively issued CITES document.

(5) The specimens must be Appendix-II or -III wildlife or plants, except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, the exporter or re-exporter and importer were not responsible for the irregularities that occurred and have demonstrated one of the following:

(i) The Management Authority or officials designated to clear CITES shipments misinformed the exporter or re-exporter or the importer about the CITES requirements. In the United States, this would be an employee of the FWS (for any species) or APHIS or CBP (for plants).

(ii) The Management Authority made a technical error when issuing the CITES document that was not prompted by information provided by the applicant.

(7) In the case of specimens for personal use, you must either show that you qualify under paragraph (d)(6) of this section, or that a genuine error was made and that there was no attempt to deceive. The following specimens for personal use may qualify for issuance of a retrospective document:

(i) Personal or household effects as defined in ยง 23.5.

(ii) Live Appendix-II or -III specimens or live pre-Convention Appendix-I specimens that you own for your personal use, accompanied you, and number no more than two.

(iii) Parts, products, or derivatives of an Appendix-I species that qualify as pre-Convention when the following conditions are met:

(A) You own and possess the specimen for personal use.

(B) You either wore the specimen as clothing or an accessory or took it as part of your personal baggage, which was carried by you or checked as baggage on the same plane, boat, car, or train as you.

(C) The quantity is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the nature of your trip or stay.
