
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart D - Factors Considered in Making Certain Findings
###### ยง 23.62 What factors are considered in making a finding of not for primarily commercial purposes?
####### How we make our findings.

(b)We must find that the intended use of the Appendix-I specimen is not for primarily commercial purposes before we can issue a CITES document.

(1) We will make this decision on a case-by-case basis considering all available information.

(2) The applicant must provide sufficient information to satisfy us that the intended use is not for primarily commercial purposes.

(3) The definitions of "commercial" and "primarily commercial purposes" in ยง 23.5 apply.

(4) We will look at all aspects of the intended use of the specimen. If the noncommercial aspects do not clearly predominate, we will consider the import or introduction from the sea to be for primarily commercial purposes.

(5) While the nature of the transaction between the owner in the country of export and the recipient in the country of import or introduction from the sea may have some commercial aspects, such as the exchange of money to cover the costs of shipment and care of specimens during transport, it is the intended use of the specimen, including the purpose of the export, that must not be for primarily commercial purposes.

(6) We will conduct an assessment of factors listed in paragraph (d) of this section. For activities involving an anticipated measurable increase in revenue and other economic value associated with the intended use, we will conduct an analysis as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(7) All net profits generated in the United States from activities associated with the import of an Appendix-I species must be used for conservation of that species.
