
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart D - Factors Considered in Making Certain Findings
###### ยง 23.62 What factors are considered in making a finding of not for primarily commercial purposes?
####### Analysis of anticipated revenues and other economic value.

(e)We will analyze revenues and other economic value anticipated to result from the use of the specimen for activities with a high risk of being primarily commercial.

(1) We will examine the proposed use of any net profits generated in the United States. We consider net profit to include all funds or other valuable considerations (including enhanced value of common stock shares) received or attained by you or those affiliated with you as a result of the import or introduction from the sea, to the extent that such funds or other valuable considerations exceed the reasonable expenses that are properly attributable to the proposed activity.

(2) We will consider any conservation project to be funded and, if the species was or is to be taken from the wild, how the project benefits the species in its native range, including agreements, timeframes for accomplishing tasks, and anticipated benefits to the species.

(3) We will consider any plans to monitor a proposed conservation project, including expenditure of funds or completion of tasks.

(4) In rare cases involving unusually high net profits, we will require the applicant to provide a detailed analysis of expected revenue (both direct and indirect) and expenses to show anticipated net profit, and a statement from a licensed, independent certified public accountant that the internal accounting system is sufficient to account for and track funds generated by the proposed activities.
