
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart D - Factors Considered in Making Certain Findings
###### ยง 23.63 What factors are considered in making a finding that an animal is bred in captivity?
####### Bred-in-captivity criteria.

(c)For a specimen to qualify as bred in captivity, we must be satisfied that all the following criteria are met:

(1) If reproduction is sexual, the specimen was born to parents that either mated or transferred gametes in a controlled environment.

(2) If reproduction is asexual, the parent was in a controlled environment when development of the offspring began.

(3) The breeding stock meets all of the following criteria:

(i) Was established in accordance with the provisions of CITES and relevant national laws.

(ii) Was established in a manner not detrimental to the survival of the species in the wild.

(iii) Is maintained with only occasional introduction of wild specimens as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iv) Has consistently produced offspring of second or subsequent generations in a controlled environment, or is managed in a way that has been demonstrated to be capable of reliably producing second-generation offspring and has produced first-generation offspring.
