
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart D - Factors Considered in Making Certain Findings
###### ยง 23.64 What factors are considered in making a finding that a plant is artificially propagated?
####### Exception for certain plant specimens grown from wild-collected seeds or spores.

(g)Plant specimens grown from wild-collected seeds or spores may be considered artificially propagated only when all of the following conditions have been met:

(1) Establishment of a cultivated parental stock for the taxon presents significant difficulties because specimens take a long time to reach reproductive age.

(2) The seeds or spores are collected from the wild and grown under controlled conditions within a range country, which must also be the country of origin of the seeds or spores.

(3) The Management Authority of the range country has determined that the collection of seeds or spores was legal and consistent with relevant national laws for the protection and conservation of the species.

(4) The Scientific Authority of the range country has determined that collection of the seeds or spores was not detrimental to the survival of the species in the wild, and allowing trade in such specimens has a positive effect on the conservation of wild populations. In making these determinations, all of the following conditions must be met:

(i) The collection of seeds or spores for this purpose must be limited in such a manner as to allow regeneration of the wild population.

(ii) A portion of the plants produced must be used to establish plantations to serve as cultivated parental stock in the future and become an additional source of seeds or spores and thus reduce or eliminate the need to collect seeds or spores from the wild.

(iii) A portion of the plants produced must be used for replanting in the wild, to enhance recovery of existing populations or to re-establish populations that have been extirpated.

(5) Operations propagating Appendix-I species for commercial purposes must be registered with the CITES Secretariat in accordance with the Guidelines for the registration of nurseries exporting artificially propagated specimens of Appendix-I species.
