
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart E - International Trade in Certain Specimens
###### ยง 23.69 How can I trade internationally in fur skins and fur skin products of bobcat, river otter, Canada lynx, gray wolf, and brown bear harvested in the United States?
####### CITES tags.

(c)Unless an alternative method has been approved, each CITES fur skin to be exported or re-exported must have a U.S. CITES tag permanently attached.

(1) The tag must be inserted through the skin and permanently locked in place using the locking mechanism of the tag.

(2) The legend on the CITES tag must include the US-CITES logo, an abbreviation for the State or Tribe of harvest, a standard species code assigned by the Management Authority, and a unique serial number.

(3) Fur skins without a CITES tag permanently attached may not be exported or re-exported. If the CITES tag has been inadvertently removed, damaged, or lost you may obtain a replacement tag. To obtain a replacement tag, either from the State or Tribe that issued the original tag or from us, you must provide information to show that the fur was legally acquired.

(i) When a tag is inadvertently removed, damaged, or lost, you may contact the State or Tribe of harvest for a replacement tag. If the State or Tribe cannot replace it, you may apply to FWS Law Enforcement for a replacement tag. If the tag has been inadvertently removed or damaged, you must give us the tag. If the tag is lost, you must provide details concerning how the tag was lost. If we are satisfied that the fur was legally acquired, we will provide a CITES replacement tag.

(ii) A replacement tag must meet all of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, except the legend will include only the US-CITES logo, FWS-REPL, and a unique serial number.

(4) Tags are not required on fur skin products.
