
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart E - International Trade in Certain Specimens
###### ยง 23.70 How can I trade internationally in American alligator and other crocodilian skins, parts, and products?
####### Export approval of State and tribal programs for American alligator.

(c)States and Tribes set up and maintain management and harvest programs designed to monitor and protect American alligators from over-harvest. When a State or Tribe with a management program provides us with the necessary information, we make programmatic findings and have specific requirements that allow export under CITES. A State or Tribe must provide sufficient information for us to determine that its management program and harvest controls are appropriate to ensure that alligators harvested within its jurisdiction are legally acquired and that the export will not be detrimental to the survival of the species in the wild.

(1) A State or Tribe seeking initial CITES export program approval must submit the following to the U.S. Management Authority:

(i) An assessment of the condition of the wild population and a description of the types of information on which the assessment is based, such as an analysis of carcass demographics, population models, analysis of past harvest levels as a function of skin prices or harvester effort, or indices of abundance independent of harvest information, such as nest surveys, spotlighting surveys, or nuisance complaints.

(ii) Current harvest control measures, including laws regulating harvest seasons and methods.

(iii) Total allowable harvest of the species.

(iv) Distribution of harvest.

(v) Indication of how frequently harvest levels are evaluated.

(vi) Tagging or marking requirements for skins and parts.

(vii) Habitat evaluation.

(viii) Information on nuisance alligator management programs.

(ix) Information on alligator farming programs, including whether collecting and rearing of eggs or hatchlings is allowed, what factors are used to set harvest levels, and whether any alligators are returned to the wild.

(x) If available, copies of any alligator management plans or other relevant reports for American alligator that the State or Tribe has prepared as part of its existing management program.

(2) A State or Tribe with an approved CITES export program must submit an American alligator activity report to the U.S. Management Authority by July 1 of each year to provide information regarding harvests during the previous year. This report may reference information provided in previous years if the information has not changed. An American alligator activity report, at a minimum, should include the following:

(i) The total number of skins from wild or farmed alligators that were tagged by the State or Tribe.

(ii) An assessment of the status of the alligator population with an indication of whether the population is stable, increasing, or decreasing, and at what rate (if known). If population levels are decreasing, activity reports should include the State or Tribe's professional assessment of the reason for the decline and any steps being taken to address it.

(iii) For wild alligators, information on harvest, including harvest of nuisance alligators, methods used to determine harvest levels, demographics of the harvest, and methods used to determine the total number and population trends of alligators in the wild.

(iv) For farmed alligators, information on whether collecting and rearing of eggs or hatchlings is allowed, what factors are used to set harvest levels, and whether any alligators are returned to the wild.

(v) Information on, and a copy of, any changes in laws or regulations affecting the American alligator.

(vi) If available, copies of relevant reports that the State or Tribe has prepared during the reporting period as part of its existing management program for the American alligator.

(3) We provide CITES export tags to States and Tribes with approved CITES export programs. American alligator skins and parts must meet the marking and tagging requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
