
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart E - International Trade in Certain Specimens
###### ยง 23.70 How can I trade internationally in American alligator and other crocodilian skins, parts, and products?
####### Alligator mississippiensis

(ii) Be permanently stamped with the two-letter ISO code for the country of origin, a unique serial number, a standardized species code (available on our Web site; see ยง 23.7), and for specimens of species from populations that have been transferred from Appendix I to Appendix II for ranching, the year of skin production or harvest. For American alligator, the export tags include the US-CITES logo, an abbreviation for the State or Tribe of harvest, a standard species code (MIS =), the year of skin production or harvest, and a unique serial number.

(iii) If the year of skin production or harvest and serial number appear next to each other on a tag, the information should be separated by a hyphen.

(2) Skins, flanks, and chalecos must be individually tagged.

(3) Skins without a non-reusable tag permanently attached may not be exported or re-exported. To obtain a replacement tag, either from the State or Tribe of harvest (for American alligator) or from us, you must provide information to show that the skin was legally acquired.

(i) In the United States, when an American alligator tag is inadvertently removed, damaged, or lost, you may contact the State or Tribe of harvest for a replacement tag. If the State or Tribe cannot replace it, you may apply to FWS Law Enforcement for a replacement tag. To obtain replacement tags for crocodilian skins other than American alligator in the United States, contact FWS Law Enforcement. If the tag has been inadvertently removed or damaged, you must give us the tag. If the tag is lost, you must provide details concerning how the tag was lost. If we are satisfied that the skin was legally acquired, we will provide a CITES replacement tag.

(ii) A replacement tag must meet all of the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section except that the species code and year of skin production or harvest will not be required, and for re-exports the country of re-export must be shown in place of the country of origin. In the United States, the legend will include the US-CITES logo, FWS-REPL, and a unique serial number.
