
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart E - International Trade in Certain Specimens
###### ยง 23.71 How can I trade internationally in sturgeon caviar?
####### Lot identification number

(vi)means a number that corresponds to information related to the caviar tracking system used by the processing plant or repackaging plant.

(2) The caviar-processing plant in the country of origin must affix a non-reusable label on the primary container that includes all of the following information:

(i) Standardized species code; for hybrids, the species code for the male is followed by the code for the female and the codes are separated by an "x" (codes are available on our website; see ยง 23.7).

(ii) Source code.

(iii) Two-letter ISO code of the country of origin.

(iv) Year of harvest. This is either the calendar year in which caviar was harvested or, for caviar imported from shared stocks subject to quotas, the quota year in which it was harvested.

(v) Processing plant code and lot identification number.

(3) If caviar is repackaged before export or re-export, the repackaging plant must affix a non-reusable label to the primary container that includes all of the following information:

(i) The standardized species code, source code, and two-letter ISO code of the country of origin.

(ii) Year of repackaging and the repackaging plant code, which incorporates the two-letter ISO code for the repackaging country if different from the country of origin.

(iii) Lot identification number or, for caviar that is being re-exported, the CITES document number under which it was imported may be used in place of the lot identification number.

(4) The exact quantity of caviar must be indicated on any secondary container along with a description of the contents in accordance with international customs regulations.
