
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart E - International Trade in Certain Specimens
###### ยง 23.74 How can I trade internationally in personal sport-hunted trophies?
####### Marking or tagging.

(e)(1) The following provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign documents for sport-hunted trophies originating from a population for which the Conference of the Parties has established an export quota. Each trophy imported, exported, or re-exported must be marked or tagged in the following manner:

(i) Leopard and markhor: Each raw or tanned skin must have a self-locking tag inserted through the skin and permanently locked in place using the locking mechanism of the tag. The tag must indicate the country of origin, the number of the specimen in relation to the annual quota, and the calendar year in which the specimen was taken in the wild. A mounted sport-hunted trophy must be accompanied by the tag from the skin used to make the mount.

(ii) Black rhinoceros: Parts of the trophy, including, but not limited to, skin, skull, or horns, whether mounted or loose, should be individually marked with reference to the country of origin, species, the number of the specimen in relation to the annual quota, and the year of export.

(iii) Crocodilians: See marking requirements in ยง 23.70.

(iv) The export permit or re-export certificate or an annex attached to the permit or certificate must contain all the information that is given on the tag.
