
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart G - CITES Administration
###### ยง 23.84 What are the roles of the Secretariat and the committees?
####### Secretariat.

(a)The Secretariat is headed by the Secretary-General. Its functions are listed in Article XII of the Treaty and include:

(1) Arranging and staffing meetings of the Parties.

(2) Performing functions as requested in relation to listings in the Appendices.

(3) Undertaking scientific and technical studies, as authorized by the CoP, to contribute to implementation of the Convention.

(4) Studying reports of the Parties and requesting additional information as appropriate to ensure effective implementation of the Convention.

(5) Bringing to the attention of the Parties matters relevant to the Convention.

(6) Periodically publishing and distributing to the Parties current editions of the Appendices as well as information on the identification of specimens of species listed in the Appendices.

(7) Preparing annual reports to the Parties on its work and on the implementation of the Convention.

(8) Making recommendations for the implementation of the aims and provisions of the Convention, including the exchange of scientific and technical information.

(9) Performing other functions entrusted to it by the Parties.
