
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 23 - CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES)
##### Subpart G - CITES Administration
###### ยง 23.84 What are the roles of the Secretariat and the committees?
####### Committees.

(b)The Parties have established three committees to provide administrative and technical support to the Parties and to the Secretariat. The CoP may charge any of these committees with tasks.

(1) The Standing Committee steers the work and performance of the Convention between CoPs.

(i) This committee oversees development and execution of the Secretariat's budget, advises other committees, appoints working groups, and carries out activities on behalf of the Parties between CoPs.

(ii) Regional representatives are countries that are elected by their respective geographic regions at the CoP.

(2) The Animals Committee and the Plants Committee provide advice and guidance to the CoP, the other committees, working groups, and the Secretariat on all matters relevant to international trade in species included in the Appendices.

(i) These committees also develop and maintain a standardized list of species names; provide assistance with regard to identification of species listed in the Appendices; cooperate with the Secretariat to assist Scientific Authorities; compile and evaluate data on Appendix-II species that are considered significantly affected by trade; periodically review the status of wildlife and plant species listed in the Appendices; advise range countries on management techniques when requested; draft resolutions on wildlife and plant matters for consideration by the Parties; deal with issues related to the transport of live specimens; and report to the CoP and the Standing Committee.

(ii) Regional representatives are individuals, who are elected by their respective geographic regions at the CoP.

(iii) The CoP appoints a specialist in zoological nomenclature to the Animals Committee and a specialist in botanical nomenclature to the Plants Committee. These specialists are ex officio and non-voting, and are responsible for developing or identifying standard nomenclature references for wildlife and plant taxa and making recommendations on nomenclature to Parties, the CoP, other committees, working groups, and the Secretariat.
