
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 25 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Permits
###### ยง 25.44 How do we grant permits for easement area uses?

(a) The provisions of this subsection shall govern the regulation of activities that affect easement interests acquired by the United States. All other provisions of subchapter C shall apply to activities within such easement areas, but only to the extent that those provisions are directly or indirectly related to the protection of those easement interests expressly acquired by the United States which are specified in the easement agreement itself, and are not inconsistent with the provisions of this subsection.

(b) We require permits for use of easement areas administered by us where proposed activities may affect the property interest acquired by the United States. Applications for permits will be submitted in writing to the Regional Director or a designee. We may grant special use permits to owners of servient estates, or to third parties with the owner's agreement, by the Regional Director or a designee, upon written determination that such permitted use is compatible. If we ultimately determine that the requested use will not affect the United States' interest, the Regional Director will issue a letter of non-objection.

(c) In instances where the third applicant is a governmental entity which has acquired a partial interest in the servient estate by subsequent condemnation, a special use permit may be granted to the governmental entity without the servient estate owner's agreement if the regional director or his or her designee determines:

(1) The permitted use is compatible; and

(2) The permitted use is consistent with the partial property interests obtained through condemnation.

(d) Regulations pertaining to rights-of-way in easement areas are contained in 50 CFR part 29.21.
