
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### Havasu National Wildlife Refuge.

(2)(i) We prohibit the use of all air-thrust boats, including floating aircraft.

(ii) The following conditions apply only on Topock Marsh:

(A) We close designated portions to all entry from October 1 through the last day of the waterfowl hunt season (including the State junior waterfowl hunt).

(B) We close designated portions to all entry from April 1 through August 31. These areas are indicated in refuge brochures and identified by buoys and or signs.

(C) We prohibit personal watercraft (PWC, as governed by State law).

(iii) The following conditions apply to all waters of the Colorado River within the refuge from the south regulatory buoy line to the north regulatory buoy line at Interstate 40 (approximately 17 miles (27.2 kilometers)):

(A) We prohibit personal watercraft (PWC, as governed by State law) as indicated by signs or regulatory buoys in all backwaters.

(B) We limit watercraft speed as indicated by signs or regulatory buoys to no wake (as governed by State law) in all backwaters.

(C) We prohibit water-skiing, tubing, wake boarding, or other recreational-towed devices.

(iv) The following conditions apply to improved areas within the refuge; improved areas consist of the Mesquite Bay areas, Castle Rock, the Diving Cliffs, Catfish Paradise, Five Mile Landing, and North Dike:

(A) We prohibit entry of all motorized watercraft in all three bays of the Mesquite Bay areas as indicated by signs or regulatory buoys.

(B) Improved areas are day-use only and are open fromhour before legal sunrise tohour after legal sunset. We allow fishing and launching watercraft at these and other areas 24 hours a day.

(C) We prohibit the possession of open containers of alcohol or the possession of glass beverage containers in improved areas.
