
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### J.N. "Ding" Darling National Wildlife Refuge.

(3)(i) We prohibit kite surfing, kite boarding, wind surfing, and sail boarding.

(ii) We allow vessels propelled only by polling, paddling, or floating in the posted "no-motor zone" of the J.N. "Ding" Darling Wilderness Area. All motors, including electric motors, must be in a nonuse position (out of the water) when in the "no-motor zone."

(iii) We allow vessels propelled only by polling, paddling, floating, or electric motors in the posted "pole/troll zone" of the Wulfert Flats Management Area. All non-electric motors must be in a nonuse position (out of the water) when in the "pole/troll zone."

(iv) We allow launching of canoes and kayaks anywhere on the right (north) side of Wildlife Drive. We prohibit launching motorized vessels over 14 feet (4.2 meters) in length from Wildlife Drive. Motorized vessels less than 14 feet (4.2 meters) in length may only be launched from designated site #2.

(v) We prohibit airboats, hovercraft, personal watercraft, and "Go-Devil"-style outboard motors.

(vi) Vessels must not exceed slow speed/minimum wake in refuge waters.
