
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### § 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge,Wildlife observation, photography, interpretation, environmental education, and other general recreational uses.

(2)-(i)We allow wildlife-dependent uses and other recreational uses, such as, but not limited to, sightseeing, hiking, bicycling on roads or trails, picnicking, and swimming, on areas designated by the refuge manager and shown on maps available at refuge offices, subject to the following conditions:

(A) In areas posted and shown on maps as "No Entry-Sanctuary," we prohibit entry as specified on signs or maps (see § 32.42 of this chapter for list of areas and locations).

(B) In areas posted and shown on maps as "Area Closed," "Area Closed-No Motors," and "No Hunting Zone" (Goose Island), we ask that you practice voluntary avoidance of these areas by any means or for any purpose from October 15 to the end of the respective State duck hunting season. In areas marked "no motors," we prohibit the use of motors on watercraft from October 15 to the end of the respective State duck hunting season (see § 32.42 of this chapter for list of areas and locations).

(C) Commercial tours and filming (see § 27.71 of this chapter) require a permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C) issued by the refuge or district manager.

(D) We allow the collecting of edible fruits, nuts, mushrooms, or other plant parts for personal use (no sale or barter allowed). We limit the amount you may collect to 2 gallons by volume per person, per day. We also allow the collecting of shed deer antlers for personal use.

(E) We prohibit the harvest of wild rice; plant and animal specimens; and other natural objects, such as rocks, stones, or minerals (see § 27.21 of this chapter). We only allow the collection of plants or their parts for ornamental use by permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge or district manager.

(F) We prohibit the cutting, removal, or damage of any tree or vegetation on the refuge without a permit from the refuge or district manager. We prohibit attaching nails, screws, or other hardware to any tree (see § 32.2(i) of this chapter).

(G) We prohibit all vehicle use on or across refuge lands at any time except on designated routes of travel or on the ice over navigable waters accessed from boat landings. We prohibit parking beyond vehicle control barriers or on grass or other vegetation. We prohibit parking or operating vehicles in a manner that obstructs or impedes any road, trail, fire lane, boat ramp, access gate, or other facility, or in a manner that creates a safety hazard or endangers any person, property, or environmental feature. We may impound any vehicle left parked in violation at the owner's expense (see § 27.31(h) of this chapter).

(H) We allow dogs and other domestic animals on the refuge subject to the following conditions:
