
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### § 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### 8

() We prohibit horses and all other domestic animals on the refuge unless confined in a vehicle, boat, trailer, kennel, or other container (see § 26.21 of this chapter).

(I) We prohibit the discharging of firearms (including dog training pistols and dummy launchers), air guns, or any other weapons on the refuge, unless you are a licensed hunter or trapper engaged in authorized activities during established seasons, as governed by Federal, State, and local regulations. We prohibit target practice on the refuge (see §§ 27.42 and 27.43 of this chapter).

(J) We prohibit the use or possession of glass food and beverage containers on lands within the refuge.

(K) We require that you keep all refuge lands clean during your period of use or occupancy. At all times you must keep all refuse, trash, and litter contained in bags or other suitable containers and not left scattered on the ground or in the water. You must remove all personal property, refuse, trash, and litter immediately upon vacating a site. We require that human solid waste and associated material be either removed and properly disposed of off-refuge or be buried on site to a depth of 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters) and at least 50 feet (15 meters) from water's edge (see § 27.94 of this chapter).
