
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### 8

() Princeton, Pool 14, Iowa, 327 acres.

(C) In water access and travel routes posted and shown on maps as "Slow No Wake Zone," we require watercraft to travel at slow, no-wake speed (as governed by applicable State law) at all times unless otherwise posted.

(D) In portions of Spring Lake and Crooked Slough-Lost Mound, Pool 13, Illinois, posted as "Slow, 5 mph When Boats Present" and marked on maps as "Speed/Distance Regulation," we require watercraft operators to reduce the speed of their watercraft to less than 5 miles per hour (mph) (8 kilometers per hour (kph)) when within 100 feet (30 meters) of another watercraft that is anchored or underway at 5 mph (8 kph) or less.

(E) We prohibit the mooring, beaching, or storing of watercraft on the refuge not used at least once every 24 hours. We define "used" as a watercraft moved at least 100 feet (30 meters) on the water with the operator on board. We prohibit the mooring of watercraft within 200 feet (60 meters) of refuge boat landings or ramps. We may impound any watercraft moored in violation at the owner's expense (see ยง 27.32 of this chapter).

(F) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (v)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (K) of this section apply.
