
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### § 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### 4

() Occupying or leaving personal property, including boats or other craft, at a site anytime between the hours of 11 p.m. and 3 a.m.

(B) We prohibit camping at any one site for a period longer than 14 days during any 30-consecutive-day period. After 14 days, you must move all persons, property, equipment, and boats to a new site located at least 0.5 mile (0.8 kilometer) from the previous site.

(C) We prohibit camping within 200 feet (60 meters) of any refuge boat landing, access area, parking lot, structure, road, trail, or other recreation or management facility.

(D) We prohibit camping during waterfowl hunting seasons within areas posted "No Entry-Sanctuary," "Area Closed," "Area Closed-No Motors," and "No Hunting Zone" or on any sites not clearly visible from the main commercial navigation channel of the Mississippi River (see § 32.42 of this chapter).

(E) You must occupy campsites daily. We prohibit the leaving of tents, camping equipment, or other property unattended at any site for over 24 hours, and we may impound any equipment left in violation at the owner's expense. We define "occupy" and "attended" as being present at a site for a minimum of 2 hours daily.

(F) You must remove any tables, fireplaces, or other facilities erected upon vacating a camping or day-use site.

(G) We allow campfires in conjunction with camping and day-use activities subject to the following conditions (see §§ 27.95 and 32.42 of this chapter):
