
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge.

(4)(i) We prohibit boating outside of the waterfowl and youth waterfowl hunting season except in Swan Check Lake, where we allow nonmotorized boating all year.

(ii) We prohibit boats on Swan Lake, the northeast corner of North Nutgrass Lake, and the north end of Pintail Bay. We allow the use of nonmotorized carts, sleds, floating blinds, and other floating devices in these areas to transport hunting equipment and to conceal hunters, but not to transport hunters.

(iii) We only allow outboard motor boats on Lead Lake, Tule Lake, Goose Lake, South Nutgrass Lake, the southeast corner of North Nutgrass Lake, and south end of Pintail Bay.

(iv) We only allow air-thrust boats on Goose Lake, South Nutgrass Lake, the southeast corner of North Nutgrass Lake, and the south end of Pintail Bay.

(v) You may not operate air-thrust boats until 1 hour after the legal shooting time on opening day of waterfowl season.

(vi) We require air-thrust boat owners to get a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) from the refuge manager and to display a number on their airboats.

(vii) We allow nonmotorized boats on all lakes and bays except Swan Lake, the northeast corner of North Nutgrass Lake, and the north end of Pintail Bay.

(viii) We allow camping only in designated areas.

(bb)-(dd) [Reserved]
