
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### 3,2

() Any permanent, full time resident as of April 1, 1983, residing in the area outlined in paragraph (ss)(1)(i)(B)() of this section and not otherwise eligible, who can substantiate to the Secretary of the Interior that access is essential to their maintaining a livelihood, as long as they maintain full-time continuous employment in the Norfolk, Virginia, area may qualify for access.

(C) The burden of proving that the prospective permittee meets these criteria shall be on the applicant by presentation of adequate documentation to the refuge manager. Permittees may be required to submit additional documentation of their eligibility to the refuge manager in order to maintain access. Permits (FWS Form 3-1383-G) will be issued only to those who legally qualify for them.

(D) Only one permit will be issued per family. All permits issued will be terminated in the event that alternate access becomes available during the permit period.

(E) Permits are issued for the purpose of providing entry and exit across the refuge beach to the permittee's residence. Personal access is limited to permittees, and their families, relatives, and guests while being transported in the permittee's vehicle. "Personal access" means private, non-commercial use. Permits are not transferable by sale or devise.

(F) All vehicle occupants must provide positive identification upon the request of any refuge official.
