
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### Access: Commercial fishermen, businesses, and their employees.

(x)(A) Commercial fishermen who have verified that their fishing operations on the Outer Banks of Virginia Beach, Virginia, or Currituck County, North Carolina, have been dependent since 1972 on entry and exit to or across the refuge are granted permits (FWS Form 3-1383-G) for access. Travel through the refuge by commercial fishermen from Currituck County, North Carolina, will be permitted only when directly associated with commercial fishing operations. Drivers and passengers on trips through the refuge are limited to commercial fishing crew members. A "commercial fisherman" means one who harvests finfish by gill net or haul seine in the Atlantic Ocean, and who has owned and operated a commercial fishing businesses continuously since 1972. Commercial permits are not transferable by sale or devise. The level of commercial permittee travel across the refuge shall not increase above the average yearly levels maintained in the 1985-1987 period.

(B) Other businesses who have verified that their business operations on the Outer Banks of Currituck County, North Carolina, have been dependent since 1972 on entry and exit to or across the refuge will be granted permits (FWS Form 3-1383-G) for access in accordance with the limitations outlined in paragraph (ss)(1)(x)(A) of this section.

(C) Each commercial fisherman or other business may be granted a maximum of five designated employees to travel the refuge beach for commercial fishing or other business-related purposes only. Commercial fishing employees may carry only other commercial fishing employees as passengers. Other business employees may carry only other employees of that business. The hauling of trailers associated with the conduct of commercial fishing or other business activities is authorized.
