
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 26 - PUBLIC ENTRY AND USE
##### Subpart C - Public Use and Recreation
###### ยง 26.34 What are the special regulations concerning public access, use, and recreation for individual national wildlife refuges?
####### Other access rules in this paragraph (ss)(1).

(xiii)(A) No permit will remain in effect beyond December 31 of the year in which it was issued. Permits may be renewed upon the submission of appropriate updated information relating to the permit, and a signed statement that the conditions under which the previous permit was issued have not changed. In the event of any changes of conditions under which the permit is granted, the permittee shall notify the refuge manager in writing within 30 days. Failure to report changes may result in suspension/revocation of the permit.

(B) Vehicles shall be operated on the refuge beach only by the permittee or other authorized drivers. Permit holders shall not tow, transport, or operate vehicles owned by non-permit holders through the refuge. Non-commercial permit holders may tow utility and boat trailers when being used for their personal use only. Any towed vehicle shall have advance approval from the refuge manager prior to being brought through the refuge. The access privilege in this paragraph (ss)(1)(xiii)(B) is not to be used for any commercial purpose.

(C) The refuge manager may prescribe restrictions as to the types of vehicles to be permitted to ensure public safety and adherence to all applicable rules and regulations.

(D) A magnetic card will be issued to each authorized driver only for his or her operation of the computer-controlled gate. No more than two cards will be issued per family. Only one vehicle will be permitted to pass for each gate opening. Unauthorized use of the magnetic card may result in suspension of the permit. A fee will be charged to replace lost or misplaced cards. Malfunctioning cards will be replaced at no charge.

(E) Access is granted for the purpose of travel to and from the permittee's residence and/or place of business. Access is not authorized for the purpose of transporting individuals for hire, or for the transport of prospective real estate clients to or from the Outer Banks of North Carolina, or for any other purpose not covered by this paragraph (ss)(1).
