
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 27 - PROHIBITED ACTS
##### Subpart C - Disturbing Violations: With Vehicles
###### ยง 27.32 Boats.

(a) The use of boats in national wildlife refuges is prohibited except as may be authorized under and subject to the requirements set forth below.

(b) When the use of boats is permitted on any national wildlife refuge, the public will be notified under the provisions of this subchapter C and the following operational requirements and limitations will apply:

(1)(i) In addition to the regulations contained in this part, the U.S. Coast Guard Regulations, titles 33 and 46 CFR, are applicable on navigable waters of the United States.

(ii) Unless specifically covered by the general and special regulations set forth in this chapter, the laws and regulations of the State within whose exterior boundaries a national wildlife refuge or portion thereof is located shall govern boating and the operation and use of boats. Such laws and regulations which are now or may hereafter be in effect are hereby adopted and made a part of the regulations in this part.

(2) No operator or person in charge of any boat shall operate or knowingly permit any other person to operate a boat in a reckless or negligent manner, or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person, property or wildlife.

(3) No person shall operate or be in actual physical control of a boat while under the influence of intoxicating beverages or controlled substances.

(4) No person shall operate a boat in a manner which will unreasonably interfere with other boats or with free and proper navigation of the waterways of the areas. Anchoring in heavily traveled channels or main thoroughfares shall constitute such interference if unreasonable in the prevailing circumstances.

(5) No person shall operate a boat on refuge waters that has a marine head (toilet) unless it conforms to Environmental Protection Agency regulations regarding sewage discharge.

(6) Every sailboat when underway from sunset to sunrise shall carry and exhibit a bright white light visible all around the horizon for a distance of two miles.

(7) Leaving any boat unattended, outside of designated mooring or beaching areas, for a period in excess of 72 hours without written permission of the refuge manager is prohibited and any boat so left may be impounded by the refuge manager.

(8) Government-owned docks, piers, and floats are not to be used for loading and unloading of boats, except in emergencies or unless specifically authorized by the refuge manager.
