
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 29 - LAND USE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Rights-of-Way General Regulations
###### ยง 29.21-2 Application procedures.
####### Application.

(a)(1) No special form of application is required. The application should state the purpose for which the right-of-way is being requested together with the length, width on each side of the centerline, and the estimated acreage. Applications, including exhibits, must be filed in triplicate with the Regional Director for the region in which the State is located. A list of States in each region and the addresses of the regional offices are provided at 50 CFR 2.2.

(2)(i) All applications filed pursuant to this subpart in the name of individuals, corporations, or associations must be accompanied by a nonreturnable application fee. No application fee will be required of (A) State of local governments or agencies or instrumentalities thereof except as to rights-of-way, easements or permits under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended by Pub. L. 93-153, or (B) Federal Government agencies.

(ii) Application fees will be in accordance with the following schedule:

(A) For linear facilities (e.g., powerlines, pipelines, roads, etc.).

(B) For nonlinear facilities, $250 for each 40 acres or fraction thereof.

(C) Where an application includes both linear and nonlinear facilities, payment will be the aggregate of amounts under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(D) When an application is received, the Regional Director will estimate the costs expected to be incurred in processing the application. If the estimated costs exceed the payments under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) (A), (B), or (C) of this section by an amount greater than the cost of maintaining actual cost records, the Regional Director shall require the applicant to make periodic payments in advance of the incurrence of such costs by the United States except for the last payment which will reflect final reimbursement for actual costs of the United States in processing the application. Overpayments may be refunded or adjusted by the Regional Director as appropriate.

(E) The Regional Director shall, on request by an applicant or prospective applicant, give an estimate based on the best available cost information, of the costs which would be incurred by the United States in processing an application. However, reimbursement will not be limited to the estimate of the Regional Director if the actual costs exceed the estimate. Prospective applicants are encouraged to consult with the Regional Director in advance of filing an application in regard to probable costs and other requirements.

(3)(i) By accepting an easement or permit under this subpart, the holder agrees to reimburse the United States for reasonable costs incurred by the Fish and Wildlife Service in monitoring the construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of facillities within or adjacent to the easement or permit area. No reimbursement of monitoring costs will be required of (A) State or local governments or agencies or instrumentalities thereof except as to right-of-way, easements, or permits granted under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 as amended by Pub. L. 93-153, or (B) Federal Government agencies.

(ii) Within 60 days of the issuance of an easement or permit the holder must submit a nonreturnable payment in accordance with the following:

(A) For linear facilities e.g., powerlines, pipelines, roads, etc.).

(B) For nonlinear facilities, $100 for each 40 acres or fraction thereof.

(C) Where an easement or permit includes both linear and nonlinear facilities, payment will be the aggregate amounts under paragraph (a)(3)(2)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section.

(D) When an easement or permit is granted the Regional Director shall estimate the costs, based on the best available cost information, expected to be incurred by the United States in monitoring holder activity. If the estimated costs exceed the payments under paragraph (a)(3)(2) (ii), (A), (B), or (C) of this section by an amount which is greater than the cost of maintaining actual cost records for the monitoring process, the Regional Director shall require the holder to make periodic payments of the estimated reimbursable costs prior to the incurrence of such costs by the United States. Overpayments may be refunded or adjusted by the Regional Director as appropriate.

(E) Following the termination of an easement or permit, the former holder will be required to pay additional amounts to the extent the actual costs to the United States have exceeded the payments required by paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.
