
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 29 - LAND USE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart D - Management of Non-Federal Oil and Gas Rights
###### Change of Operator
####### § 29.171 What must I do if operations are transferred to me?

(a) If another operator transfers operations conducted under § 29.44, as the transferee you may continue operating under the requirements of that section, but:

(1) Within 30 calendar days from the date of the transfer, you must provide to the Service:

(i) Documentation demonstrating that you hold the right to operate; and

(ii) The names, phone numbers, and addresses of your:

(A) Primary company representative;

(B) Representative responsible for field supervision; and

(C) Representative responsible for emergency response.

(2) Within 90 days, or as otherwise agreed to by the Service, submit an operations permit application in compliance with §§ 29.90-29.97, Operations Permit: Application, that must be approved in compliance with applicable provisions of this subpart and under the timelines outlined in §§ 29.100-29.103, Operations Permit: Application Review and Approval.

(b) If another operator transfers operations conducted under § 29.43 or an operations permit, you must within 30 days of commencing transferred operations:

(1) Provide documentation demonstrating that you hold the right to operate.

(2) Provide the names, phone numbers, and addresses of your:

(i) Primary company representative;

(ii) Representative responsible for field supervision; and

(iii) Representative responsible for emergency response.

(3) Agree in writing to conduct operations in accordance with all terms and conditions of the previous operator's permit.

(4) File financial assurance with us that is acceptable to the Service and made payable to the Service.

(5) Receive written approval from the Service for the transfer of the operation's permit.

(c) You may modify operations transferred to you in accordance with § 29.160.
