
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.20 Alabama.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and incidental take of feral hog subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(v), and (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(ii) Deer hunters may place one portable stand or blind on the refuge for use while deer hunting, but only during the open deer season. The stand must be clearly labeled with the hunter's State hunting license number. You may leave the stand or blind on the refuge overnight during the deer season.

(iii) While climbing a tree, installing a tree stand that uses climbing aids, or hunting from a tree stand on the refuge, hunters must use a fall-arrest system (full body harness) that is manufactured to the Tree Stand Manufacturers Association's standards.

(iv) Deer hunts are archery only except during the State Special Opportunity Areas (SOA) hunt.

(v) The State SOA hunt will occur 4 days per year on the refuge as specified by State SOA regulations.

(vi) Hunters must be selected for and possess a State limited quota permit in order to participate in the State SOA hunt on the refuge.

(vii) We allow the use of muzzleloaders only during the State SOA hunt.
