
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.20 Alabama.
####### Eufaula National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(d)-(1)We allow hunting of mourning dove and Eurasian-collared dove, duck, and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) when hunting.

(ii) All youth hunters (ages 10 through 15) must remain within sight and normal voice contact of a properly licensed hunting adult age 21 or older. Youth hunters must possess and carry verification of passing a State-approved hunter education course. One adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.

(iii) All waterfowl hunting opportunities are spaced-blind and assigned by lottery. Hunters wishing to participate in our waterfowl hunt must submit a Waterfowl Lottery Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System).

(iv) Hunters must remove all stands/blinds and other personal property at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) We allow access to the refuge for hunting from 1hours before legal sunrise to 1hours after legal sunset.

(vi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(vii) We prohibit hunting or observing from an elevated stand without use of a full body harness.
