
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.20 Alabama.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated portions of the refuge as governed by State regulations subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow hunting on designated areas from legal sunrise to legal sunset on Monday, Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday.

(iii) We prohibit the use of firearms for hunting deer on the refuge.

(iv) We allow hunters to hunt from portable tree stands. While climbing a tree, installing a tree stand that uses climbing aids, or hunting from a tree stand on the refuge, hunters must use a fall-arrest system (full body harness) that is manufactured to the Tree Stand Manufacturers Association's standards.

(v) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(vi) Hunters may hunt big game species other than deer with shotguns using only approved nontoxic #4 shot or smaller (see ยง 32.2(k)), rifles and handguns using rim-fire ammunition only, or archery equipment that complies with State regulations.

(4) [Reserved]
