
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.22 Arizona.
####### Havasu National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of mourning and white-winged dove, duck, American coot, common gallinule, goose, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit falconry.

(ii) We allow only shotguns, crossbows, and archery equipment for hunting.

(iii) You must remove all decoys, boats, trash items, cameras, temporary blinds, stands, and other equipment at the end of each day's activities (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(v) The following conditions apply to Pintail Slough (Quota Hunt Area):

(A) We require a fee for Quota waterfowl hunting.

(B) We limit the number of persons at each waterfowl hunt blind or field to four. Observers cannot hold shells or guns for hunting unless in possession of a valid State hunting license and stamps.

(C) Waterfowl hunters must hunt within the designated boundaries of their assigned blind or field.

(D) You may use only native vegetation or materials for making or fixing hunt blinds.

(E) We allow waterfowl hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Waterfowl hunting ends at 2 p.m. MST (Mountain Standard Time). Hunters must be out of the Pintail Slough area by 3 p.m. MST.

(F) We allow dove hunting at the Pintail Slough Quota Hunt Area outside the general State waterfowl season.
