
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Bald Knob National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, merganser, snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.

(ii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry, unless the refuge is closed to deer hunting at that time due to implementation of State flood closure zone regulations.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. Except when hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge by 1 p.m. All other hunters, including those hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.

(iv) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon), except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt for applicable goose species until legal sunset. Snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove hunters may hunt until legal sunset.

(v) When waterfowl hunting, you may not possess more than 25 shotgun shells while in the field, except that during the State Conservation Order, there is no limit on the number of shells you may possess while hunting applicable goose species.

(vi) We prohibit hunting closer than 100 yards (91 meters) to another hunter or hunting party.

(vii) You must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for migratory bird and upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.

(ix) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(x) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.

(xi) We close the Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Unit to all entry and hunting from November 15 to February 28, except that quota gun deer hunters may hunt in that Unit when the season overlaps with these dates.

(xii) We allow waterfowl hunting from mowed and/or graveled road rights-of-way, but we prohibit all other hunting from these rights-of-way.

(xiii) We allow only hunters to use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and only from September 1 through March 31, except that during the State Conservation Order, hunters may use ATVs for hunting applicable goose species.

(xiv) Hunters may use conventional motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads, levee tops, designated ATV trails (open to ATVs only), and established parking lots not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.

(xv) Hunters and anglers may use conventional motor vehicles only in the Bison, Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Core Waterfowl Area Hunt Units and only from March 1 through November 14.

(xvi) From November 15 through February 28, we close the Core Waterfowl Area Hunt Unit to all hunting, fishing, and public entry at 1 p.m. daily, except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt applicable goose species in this Unit until legal sunset.
