
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), (viii), (ix), and (xi) through (xvii), (2)(v), and (2)(vi) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iii) Turkey hunting will be conducted in the Bison, Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Mingo Creek Hunt Units according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iv) Hunters may use only shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting on the Bison, Core Waterfowl Area, and Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Units.

(v) You may erect portable stands and blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season and must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuary prior to November 15, except for stands used by quota gun deer hunters, which you must remove by the last day of the quota gun deer hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). You must remove all stands on the remainder of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.

(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot and buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.

(viii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.

(ix) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during specified periods for archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.

(xi) During the quota turkey hunts, only hunters possessing a valid quota turkey hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) will be allowed to enter the open hunt units and only for the purposes of turkey hunting.
