
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, nutria, coyote, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.

(ii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry.

(iii) We allow incidental take of nutria, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(iv) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(v) We allow the use of dogs only for squirrel, rabbit, and quail hunting in the refuge area north of Timm's Point.

(vi) Hunters may only use shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.

(vii) We prohibit hunting from mowed and/or gravel road rights-of-way.

(viii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night (from 30 minutes after legal sunset to 30 minutes before legal sunrise) on the refuge.

(ix) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.

(x) From November 1 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries to all hunting and public entry.

(xi) Hunters and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, bicycles, e-bikes, or boats overnight on the refuge.

(xii) We only allow use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) by hunters with mobility-impairments, and the refuge manager must authorize this use in writing.

(xiii) Hunters and anglers may use motor vehicles, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.

(xiv) From November 1 through February 28, boat access is restricted to launching at Seven Mile boat ramp and using Ditch 28 only.
