
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and incidental take of feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii), and (vii) through (xvi) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iii) Modern gun deer hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle.

(iv) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season and must remove them 7 days after the closure of archery season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.

(vi) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot or buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.

(viii) Turkey hunting is conducted according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(ix) During the quota gun deer hunts, only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer permit (FWS Form 3-2439) may use the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.

(x) During the quota gun turkey hunts, we close the refuge Wildlife Auto Drive Road to other hunting and public entry, and only hunters possessing a valid quota gun turkey permit (FWS Form 3-2439) may use that area of the refuge and only for the purposes of turkey hunting.

(xi) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.
