
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(2)(ii), (x), (xi), (xii) through (xv), and (b)(3)(ix) and (x) of this section apply.

(ii) Anglers may launch boats only in designated areas.

(iii) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.

(iv) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).

(v) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on all refuge waters from March 1 through October 31.

(vi) We allow fishing in the Sand Slough-Mud Slough area from November 1 through February 28 only with the use of nonmotorized boats and electric trolling motors; anglers may enter this area at 4 a.m. and must depart by 1 hour after legal sunset.

(vii) We prohibit climbing onto or fishing from any water control structure and associated wingwalls and fences, or the top of the Floodway Dam south of Highway 18.

(viii) We prohibit tournament fishing on the refuge.
