
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Cache River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(c)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, merganser, snipe, woodcock, rail, gallinule, crow, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.

(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. Except when hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge by 1 p.m. All other hunters, including those hunting applicable goose species during the State Conservation Order, must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.

(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon), except that during the State Conservation Order, you may hunt for applicable goose species until legal sunset.

(iv) You must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) From March 1 through October 31, hunters and anglers may leave boats displaying valid registration on the refuge.

(vi) During the regular State waterfowl hunting season, we prohibit the use of boats on the refuge from 12 a.m. (midnight) to 4 a.m.

(vii) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.

(viii) We allow waterfowl hunting on flooded refuge roads.

(ix) During the quota gun deer hunt, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry, unless the refuge is closed to deer hunting at that time due to implementation of State flood closure zone regulations.

(x) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for migratory bird and upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.

(xi) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State season and regulations.

(xii) From November 15 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries to all hunting and public entry.

(xiii) We allow only hunters to use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and only from September 1 through March 31, except that during the State Conservation Order, hunters may use ATVs for hunting applicable goose species.

(xiv) Hunters and anglers may not operate conventional motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, or e-bikes on any road or trail closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.

(xv) Hunter and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, ATVs, bicycles, or e-bikes unattended overnight on the refuge.
