
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (v), (vi), and (ix) through (xvi), and (c)(2)(iv), (vi) and (vii) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery/crossbow, modern gun, and muzzleloader deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iii) Hunters may take only feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iv) Hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths greater than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting on the Dixie, Dixie Waterfowl Sanctuary, and Plunkett Farm Waterfowl Sanctuary Hunt Units.

(v) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season, and you must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuaries prior to November 15, and from the rest of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.

(vii) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot and buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.

(viii) During the quota gun deer hunt, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.

(ix) Turkey hunting will be conducted in designated areas according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.
