
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Dale Bumpers White River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(d)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl (duck, goose, merganser, and coot), dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require an annual public use permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to hunt, fish, launch boats, and utilize campgrounds.

(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting from legal shooting hours until 12 p.m. (noon).

(iii) We allow the use of dogs when migratory game bird hunting.

(iv) We allow woodcock hunting beginning December 1 until the end of the State woodcock season on the North Unit following State legal shooting hours and bag limit.

(v) We prohibit goose hunting outside the State duck season.

(vi) We allow dove hunting only during the Statewide season in September and October, as specified in the refuge public use brochure.

(vii) You must remove blinds, blind material, and decoys from the refuge by 1 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) Waterfowl hunters may enter the North Unit, Jack's Bay Hunt Area, and Levee Hunt Area no earlier than 4 a.m. on days hunting is allowed, as identified in the refuge public use brochure.

(ix) We prohibit boating from November 1 to March 1 in the South Unit Waterfowl Hunt Areas, except from 4 a.m. to 1 p.m. on designated waterfowl hunt days.

(x) We allow waterfowl hunting on outlying tracts; the conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(ii), (vii), and (viii) of this section apply.

(xi) We only allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) for wildlife-dependent hunting and fishing activities. We prohibit the use of ATVs after December 15 each year in designated South Unit areas as shown in the refuge public use brochure.

(xii) We allow incidental take of beaver, coyote, and nutria during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(xiii) During refuge-wide quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, we close the refuge to all non-quota hunting.

(xiv) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.
