
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ix), and (xi) through (xiii) of this section apply.

(ii) Archery deer seasons on the North Unit are from October 1 through January 31, except during quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, when the archery season is closed.

(iii) Archery deer seasons on the South Unit are from October 1 through December 31, except during quota muzzleloader and quota gun deer hunts, when the archery season is closed.

(iv) Muzzleloader season for deer will begin in October and will continue for a period of up to 3 days of quota hunting in the North and South Units, and no more than 4 days of non-quota hunting in the North Unit.

(v) The gun deer hunt will begin in November and will continue for a period of no more than 3 days of quota hunting in the North and South Units, and no more than 2 days of non-quota hunting in the North Unit.

(vi) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439). The permits are nontransferable and nonrefundable.

(vii) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to deer season dates identified in the refuge public use brochure.

(viii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(ix) We prohibit firearm deer hunting from or across roads, ATV trails, levees, and maintained utility rights-of-way.

(x) You may only use portable deer stands and ground blinds. You may erect stands or blinds up to 7 days before each hunt, but you must remove them within 7 days after each hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). All unattended deer stands and blinds on the refuge must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly displayed.

(xi) We close the Kansas Lake Area to all entry on December 1 and reopen it on March 1.

(xii) We prohibit the possession of buckshot on the refuge.

(xiii) An adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany and be within sight and normal voice contact of hunters age 15 and younger. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.

(xiv) The annual refuge public use brochure provides season dates and methods for turkey hunting.
