
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of American woodcock, duck, light and dark goose, merganser, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters and anglers must possess and carry a signed refuge public use brochure while hunting or fishing.

(ii) Waterfowl hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon).

(iii) Hunters must remove decoys, blinds, boats, and all other equipment by 1 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We close areas of the refuge posted with "Area Closed" signs and identify them on the refuge public use brochure map as a waterfowl sanctuary. We close waterfowl sanctuaries to all public entry and public use from November 15 to February 15.

(v) We allow hunting of duck, light and dark goose, merganser, and coot during the State waterfowl season except during scheduled refuge quota gun deer hunts.

(vi) We allow American woodcock hunting during the State season except during scheduled refuge quota hunts. Woodcock hunters may enter the refuge beginning at 4 a.m. and must exit by 1 hour after legal sunset.

(vii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.

(viii) We allow only all-terrain vehicles/utility-type vehicles (ATVs/UTVs) for hunting and fishing activities according to regulations provided in the refuge public use brochure.

(ix) You may use bikes, horses, and mules on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for hunting and fishing activities on the refuge except during the quota deer hunts.

(x) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads, pipelines, and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).

(xi) We allow the incidental take of beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit.

(xii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.
