
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (iv), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery deer hunting on the refuge from the opening of the State season through January 31, except during refuge deer quota hunts.

(iii) We allow muzzleloader and modern gun deer hunting during designated times and seasons, within specified State seasons as listed in the refuge public use brochure.

(iv) Total deer harvested refuge-wide is two deer (two does, or one buck and one doe, as governed by State law) regardless of method. A doe must be harvested before a buck.

(v) We prohibit buckshot for modern gun deer hunting.

(vi) You may only use portable deer stands erected no earlier than the opening day of archery season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).

(viii) Turkey hunting (Archery, Youth, and Quota) will be conducted during designated times and seasons, within specified State seasons as listed in the refuge public use brochure.

(ix) We restrict quota hunt participants to those selected for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439), except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany the youth hunter age 15 and younger.

(x) An adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license must accompany and be within sight and normal voice contact of hunters age 15 and younger. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.

(xi) We allow the use of one tree stand or ground blind, and one game camera, on the refuge if the owner's State hunting license number is clearly written on them in a conspicuous location.

(xii) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit (FWS Form 3-2439). These permits are nontransferable, and the permit fees are nonrefundable.

(xiii) The incidental taking of feral hogs will be governed by Arkansas Game and Fish Commission regulations concerning the taking of feral hogs on State Wildlife Management Areas (WMAs). Subject to State regulations, we allow incidental take of feral hogs during daytime refuge deer quota hunts (without the use of dogs) and during a specified period during archery deer hunting with legal hunting equipment and ammunition allowed for those hunts according to the season dates provided in the refuge public use brochure. There is no bag limit.
