
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, quail, raccoon, opossum, beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, fox, striped skunk, coyote, and bobcat on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.

(ii) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iii) We only allow use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) by hunters and anglers with mobility impairments, and the refuge manager must authorize this use in writing.

(iv) Hunters and anglers may use boats in designated areas and at times provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(v) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.

(vi) During the quota youth gun deer and turkey hunts, we close the refuge to all other hunting and public entry.

(vii) We allow incidental take of beaver, muskrat, nutria, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(viii) Hunters and anglers may use bicycles and e-bikes only on public use roads and designated trails not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.

(ix) During the mentored youth squirrel and rabbit hunts, the mentoring adult may supervise up to two hunting youths. Youth hunters may only use shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle. We prohibit adults from hunting during mentored hunts.

(x) Hunters must enter and exit the refuge from designated roads and parking lots only.

(xi) We limit raccoon and opossum hunting to nighttime hunting only.

(xii) Hunter and anglers may not leave motor vehicles, bicycles, e-bikes, or boats unattended overnight on the refuge.

(xiii) We prohibit hunting from a vehicle.
