
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer, black bear, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(2)(i), (iii) through (viii), (x), and (xii) through (xiv) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery/crossbow hunting for white-tailed deer and turkey according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(iii) Youth modern gun deer hunts will be conducted according to season dates and bag limits provided in the refuge public use brochure.

(iv) We allow the take of black bear incidental to refuge archery and modern gun deer hunts subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(v) The refuge will conduct youth-only quota spring gun turkey hunts according to season dates and bag limits provided in the refuge public use brochure.

(vi) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days before the start of the season, and you must remove them from the refuge within 7 days after the season ends (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We prohibit leaving any tree stand, blind, or game camera on the refuge without the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number clearly written on it in a conspicuous location.

(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(ix) You must check all harvested turkey, bear, and deer at the refuge check station.

(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.

(xi) Big game hunters may enter the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise and must exit by 1 hour after legal sunset.
