
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(2)(iii), (iv), (vi), (viii), (xii), and (xiv) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow fishing, frogging, and crawfishing on all waters only from March 1 through October 31 from legal sunrise to legal sunset.

(iii) Anglers must remove boats from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We prohibit the take or possession of turtles and/or mollusks (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).

(v) We allow frogging and crawfishing for personal use only. All crawfish traps must have the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number permanently affixed.

(vi) We prohibit access to refuge waters and land from the Arkansas River.

(vii) We limit trotlines, setline, limblines, yo-yo and free-floating fishing devices to 20 per person; any line that extends into the water must be cotton.

(viii) Trotlines, setlines, limblines, yo-yos, and free-floating fishing devices must be clearly labelled with the angler's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission license customer identification number, and cannot be left overnight or unattended.
