
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Overflow National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(g)-(1) (1)We allow hunting of American woodcock, duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a refuge public use regulations brochure/access permit (signed brochure) while hunting.

(ii) Hunting of duck, goose, and coot ends at 12 p.m. (noon) each day.

(iii) We allow only portable blinds. Hunters must remove portable blinds, boats, and decoys from the hunt area by 1:30 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We allow only all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)/utility-type vehicles (UTVs) for hunting activities.

(v) You may use horses on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for hunting activities on the refuge.

(vi) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).

(vii) You may take beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition legal for that hunt. There is no bag limit. We prohibit transportation or possession of live hog.

(viii) We allow boats on the refuge between the hours of 4 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. during waterfowl season.

(ix) Hunters may not enter the refuge until 4 a.m., with the exception of designated parking areas.
