
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow muzzleloader deer hunting during the first State muzzleloader season for this zone. State regulations governing appropriate zones apply.

(iii) We prohibit buckshot for gun deer hunting.

(iv) The bag limit for the muzzleloader deer hunt is two deer, with no more than one buck.

(v) You may only use portable deer stands erected no earlier than the opening day of archery season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). The limit is one deer stand, blind, etc., per person.

(vi) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).

(vii) We restrict quota hunt participants on these hunts to those selected for a quota permit (electronic form), except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older and possessing a valid hunting license must accompany a youth hunter age 15 or younger.

(viii) The incidental taking of feral hogs will be governed by Arkansas Game and Fish Commission regulations concerning the taking of feral hogs on State Wildlife Management Areas (WMAs). Subject to State regulations, we allow incidental take of feral hogs on State WMAs during daytime refuge hunts (without the use of dogs) with legal hunting equipment and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit. We prohibit transport or possession of live hogs.

(4) [Reserved]
