
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Pond Creek National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(h)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, coot, and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We close migratory game bird hunting during scheduled quota refuge gun deer hunts.

(ii) Hunting ends at 12 p.m. (noon) each day.

(iii) We allow only portable blinds. You must remove portable blinds, boats, and decoys from the hunt area by 1:30 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) You must possess and carry a refuge public use regulations brochure/access permit (signed brochure) while hunting.

(v) We allow only all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)/utility-type vehicles (UTVs) for hunting and fishing activities.

(vi) You may use horses and mules only on roads and ATV/UTV trails (when open to motor vehicle and ATV/UTV traffic, respectively) as a mode of transportation for on-refuge hunting and fishing activities, except during refuge muzzleloader and quota deer hunts.

(vii) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of roads and trails open to motor vehicle use (including ATV/UTV trails).

(viii) You may take beaver, nutria, and coyote during any daytime refuge hunt with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. We prohibit the use of dogs to take these species. There is no bag limit.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs when waterfowl hunting.

(x) We authorize the use of tree stands, game cameras, and boats while hunting and fishing on the refuge. The owner's Arkansas Game and Fish customer identification number must be affixed to, or clearly written on, them in a conspicuous manner.
