
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow archery deer hunting on the refuge from the opening of the State season through January 31. State regulations governing appropriate zones apply.

(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(iv) through (viii) of this section apply.

(iii) We close archery deer hunting during the quota gun deer hunts.

(iv) We allow muzzleloader deer hunting for the first 5 days of the early State muzzleloader season for this deer management zone. The bag limit for the refuge muzzleloader hunt is two deer, with no more than one buck.

(v) We prohibit buckshot for gun deer hunting.

(vi) We restrict hunt participants for quota hunts to those drawn for a quota permit. These permits are nontransferable, and permit fees are nonrefundable.

(vii) The quota gun deer hunt bag limit is two deer, with no more than one buck (one buck and one doe). Exception: Youth hunters participating in the refuge youth deer hunt and hunters participating in the refuge mobility-impaired hunt may harvest the legal State bag limit without antler restrictions.

(viii) We do not open for fall archery turkey season.

(ix) We close spring archery turkey hunting during scheduled turkey quota permit gun hunts.

(x) You may use only portable deer stands erected no sooner than 2 days before the opening of the State deer season, and you must remove them no later than January 31 each year (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(xi) We prohibit the use of deer decoy(s).

(xii) We restrict hunt participants during quota hunts to those selected for a quota permit, except that one nonhunting adult age 21 or older and possessing a valid hunting license must accompany a youth hunter.

(xiii) We allow tree stands, ground blinds, boats, or game cameras on the refuge only if the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish customer identification number is affixed to, or clearly written on, them in a conspicuous location.

(xiv) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(xv) We prohibit all public use, except fishing and access for fishing, during quota hunts.

(xvi) We allow the taking of feral hogs on the refuge only during the muzzleloader and modern gun quota permit deer hunts and with weapons and ammunition allowed for that hunt. There is no bag limit. You may not transport or possess live hogs.
