
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, nutria, beaver, coyote, quail, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439). Anyone on the refuge in possession of hunting equipment must sign and possess the permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times.

(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow hunting of raccoon and opossum at night on the refuge.

(iii) During the quota gun hunts, we close the refuge to all other hunts and public entry.

(iv) We allow squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and quail hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(v) We allow the incidental take of nutria, beaver, muskrat, river otter, mink, bobcat, fox, striped skunk, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons allowed for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.

(vi) Hunters may use only shotguns, rifles and handguns chambered for rimfire cartridges, air rifles, and archery tackle.

(vii) We prohibit hunting from mowed and/or gravel road rights-of-way.

(viii) All hunters age 11 and younger who possess valid hunter education certification must remain within normal sight and voice contact with an adult age 18 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. Hunters age 15 and younger who have not completed hunter education must be under the direct supervision (within arm's reach) of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid State hunting license. One adult may supervise up to two youth hunters for upland game hunting, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunting.

(ix) From December 1 to February 28, we close all waterfowl sanctuaries (including Wapanocca Lake) to all hunting and public entry.

(x) We prohibit the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), except that ATVs may be used by mobility-impaired hunters possessing written authorization issued by the refuge manager.

(xi) Hunters and anglers may use motor vehicles, bicycles, and e-bikes only on public use roads not closed by a locked gate, other barrier, or signage.

(xii) Hunters and anglers must use the public boat ramp on Highway 77 to launch motorized boats into Wapanocca Lake.

(xiii) Hunters and anglers must operate boats at speeds of less than 5 miles per hour between the Highway 77 boat launch and the open lake.
