
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.23 Arkansas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii), (v), and (vii) through (xvii) of this section apply.

(ii) During the quota gun deer hunts, we allow only hunters possessing a valid quota gun deer hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439) on the refuge and only for the purposes of deer hunting and the incidental take of allowable species.

(iii) You may erect portable stands or blinds 7 days prior to the refuge deer season, and you must remove them from the waterfowl sanctuaries by December 1 (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). You must remove all stands and blinds on the remainder of the refuge within 7 days of the closure of archery season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We allow portable tree stands, blinds, and game cameras on the refuge only if the owner's Arkansas Game and Fish Commission customer identification number is clearly written on them in a conspicuous location.

(v) We allow archery/crossbow, muzzleloader, and modern gun deer hunting according to season dates and bag limits provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(vi) Hunters may only use shotguns with slugs, muzzleloaders, handguns with barrel lengths longer than 4 inches, large-bore air rifles, and archery/crossbow tackle for modern gun deer hunting.

(vii) Hunters may only take feral hog incidental to modern gun and muzzleloader deer hunts and during a specified period during archery deer hunting according to season dates provided in the annual refuge public use brochure.

(viii) The annual refuge public use brochure provides season dates and bag limits for turkey hunting.

(ix) We prohibit the possession or use of lead shot or buckshot for deer hunting. We allow lead shot for turkey hunting.

(x) We prohibit the use of dogs for deer hunting.
