
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.24 California.
####### Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters may only hunt during designated days and times.

(ii) During the 2 weeks before the opening of the hunt season, you may bring a boat into Ponds AB1, A2E, AB2, A3N, A3W, A5, A7, and A8, and moor it at a designated site. You may use your boat to access the hunting ponds, and you may leave your boat on the refuge during the hunt season. You must remove your boat within 2 weeks following the close of the hunt season. We allow nonmotorized boats and motorized boats powered by electric, gasoline direct fuel injection 2-stroke, or 4-stroke gasoline motors only.

(iii) You may maintain an existing blind in the ponds open to hunting if you have a refuge permit (name and signature required), but the blind will be open for general use on a first-come, first-served basis.

(iv) You must remove all decoys and other personal property, except personal boats, from the refuge by legal sunset (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) You may enter closed areas of the refuge to retrieve downed birds, provided you leave all weapons in a legal hunting area.

(vi) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(vii) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your assigned parking lot for Ponds AB1, A2E, AB2, A3N, A3W, A5, A7, and A8, and the Ravenswood Unit.

(viii) At the Ravenswood Unit only, we only allow portable blinds or construction of temporary blinds made from natural materials.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
