
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.24 California.
####### i.e.,

(ii) You may only use portable blinds in the free-roam hunting areas (all hunt areas except Salmon Creek Unit).

(iii) You must remove all blinds, decoys, shell casings, and other personal equipment and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(v) On the Salmon Creek Unit, we allow hunting on Tuesdays and Saturdays (except Federal holidays), and hunters must possess and carry a valid daily refuge permit. We issue refuge permits prior to each hunt by random drawing of names conducted at the check station 1hours before legal shooting time. Shooting time ends at 3 p.m. Hunters drawn for a blind must completely fill out a Refuge Hunt Permit, which includes a "Record of Harvest" section. Each hunter must possess and carry the Refuge Hunt Permit/Record of Harvest (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) document while on the refuge and turn in a complete Record of Harvest at the check station before leaving the hunt area.

(vi) On the Salmon Creek Unit, you may possess shot shells in quantities of 25 or fewer per hunter, per day.

(vii) On the Salmon Creek Unit, we restrict hunters to within 100 feet (30 meters) of the assigned hunt site except for when placing and retrieving decoys, retrieving downed birds, or traveling to and from the parking area.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
