
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.24 California.
####### Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(j)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) In the controlled waterfowl hunting area, we require a valid Refuge Recreation Pass (available electronically or in person at the refuge office) for all hunters age 16 or older. All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.

(ii) We require advance reservations for the first 2 days of the hunting season. Reservations are obtained through the waterfowl lottery each year.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4:30 a.m. unless otherwise posted.

(iv) Shooting hours end at 1 p.m. on all California portions of the refuge with the following exceptions:

(A) The refuge manager may designate up to 6 afternoon special youth, ladies, veteran, or disabled hunter waterfowl hunts per season.

(B) The refuge manager may designate up to 3 days per week of afternoon waterfowl hunting for the general public after December 1.

(v) We prohibit the setting of decoys in retrieving zones.

(vi) Pit-style hunting blinds located in the Stearns units and unit 9D are first-come, first-served. We require you to hunt within a 200-foot (61-meter) radius of the blind.
