
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.24 California.
####### Modoc National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(m)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) On the opening weekend of the hunting season, hunters must possess and carry a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) issued through random drawing to hunters with advance reservations only.

(ii) After the opening weekend of the hunting season, we only allow hunting on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Hunters must check-in and out of the refuge by using self-service permits (FWS Form 3-2405, Self-Clearing Check-in/out Permit). Hunters must completely fill out the "Refuge Hunt Permit" portion of the permit and deposit it in the drop box prior to hunting. The hunter must possess and carry the "Record of Kill" portion of the permit while on the refuge and turn it in prior to exiting the hunting area.

(iii) In the designated spaced blind area, you must remain within the blind assigned to you.

(iv) All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.

(v) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your assigned parking lot or boat launch.

(vi) You may only use portable blinds in the free-roam hunting areas.

(vii) You must remove all blinds, decoys, shell casings, other personal equipment, and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(viii) Hunters must enter and exit the hunting area from the three designated hunt parking lots, which we open 1hours before legal sunrise and close 1 hour after legal sunset each hunt day.

(ix) We only allow access to the hunt area by foot and nonmotorized cart.
