
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.24 California.
####### Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(n)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must return the State-issued entry permit and vacate the refuge no later than 1hours after legal sunset unless participating in an authorized overnight stay.

(ii) All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.

(iii) Access to the hunt area is by foot traffic only. We prohibit bicycles and other conveyances. Mobility-impaired hunters should consult with the refuge manager for allowed conveyances.

(iv) You may enter or exit only at designated locations.

(v) The firearms used for hunting must remain unloaded until you are in designated free-roam areas or assigned pond/blind areas.

(vi) Hunters may use shotguns only. We prohibit shotguns larger than 12 gauge.

(vii) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your assigned parking lot or boat launch.

(viii) You may not possess shot size larger than BB, except steel "T" (0.20-inch (0.5-centimeter) diameter).

(ix) We restrict hunters assigned to the spaced blind area to within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of their assigned hunt site except for when retrieving downed birds, placing decoys, or traveling to and from the area.
