
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.24 California.
####### San Luis National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(s)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your assigned parking lot or boat launch.

(ii) You must return your permits (state-issued) to the check stations immediately upon completion of your hunt and prior to using any tour routes or leaving the refuge vicinity.

(iii) We restrict hunters in the spaced blind area to their assigned blind except when they are placing decoys, traveling to and from the parking area, retrieving downed birds, or pursuing crippled birds.

(iv) We restrict hunters in the spaced zone area of the East Bear Creek Unit to their assigned zone except when they are traveling to and from the parking area, retrieving downed birds, or pursuing crippled birds.

(v) Access to the Freitas Unit free-roam hunting area is by boat only with a maximum of 5 miles per hour (mph). We prohibit air-thrust and inboard water-thrust boats.

(vi) We require State-issued Type A area permits for access on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.

(vii) We prohibit the use of motorized boats and other flotation devices in the free-roam units with the exception of the Freitas Unit.

(viii) We prohibit vehicle trailers of any type or size to be in the refuge hunt areas at any time or to be left unattended at any location on the refuge.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.
