
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.24 California.
####### Stone Lakes National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(v)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and moorhen on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunting on Sun River Unit only on Wednesdays and Saturdays fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon).

(ii) We will select hunters through a random drawing process (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) conducted at the refuge. Hunters should bring a copy of their refuge notification on the day of their hunt. Hunters should contact the refuge manager for additional information.

(iii) All hunters age 15 and younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.

(iv) We prohibit bicycles or other conveyances. Mobility-impaired hunters should contact the refuge manager regarding allowed conveyances.

(v) We restrict hunters to their assigned spaced-blind except when they are placing or retrieving decoys, traveling to and from the parking area, retrieving downed birds, or shooting to retrieve crippled birds

(vi) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your assigned parking lot or boat launch.

(vii) We allow only nonmotorized boats to access water blinds.

(viii) You must remove all decoys, personal equipment, shotshell hulls, and refuse from the refuge by 12:30 p.m. (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(ix) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
