
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.24 California.
####### Tule Lake National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(x)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) In the controlled waterfowl hunting area, we require a valid Refuge Recreation Pass (available electronically or in person at the refuge office) for all hunters age 16 or older.

(ii) All hunters age 15 or younger must remain in the immediate presence of an adult (age 18 or older) at all times while in the field.

(iii) We require advance reservations for the first 2 days of the hunting season. You may obtain a reservation through the waterfowl lottery each year.

(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4:30 a.m. unless otherwise posted.

(v) Shooting hours end at 1 p.m. on all portions of the refuge with the following exceptions:

(A) The refuge manager may designate up to 6 afternoon special youth, ladies, veteran, or disabled hunter waterfowl hunts per season.

(B) The refuge manager may designate up to 3 days per week of afternoon waterfowl hunting for the general public after December 1.

(vi) You select blind sites by lottery at the beginning of each hunt day. You may shoot only from within your assigned blind site.

(vii) We prohibit the setting of decoys in retrieving zones.

(viii) We prohibit air-thrust and inboard water-thrust boats while hunting. We prohibit the use of all-terrain amphibious or utility-type vehicles (UTVs) in wetland units.
