
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.25 Colorado.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow fishing on Tuesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from legal sunrise to legal sunset.

(ii) We allow fishing from the first Saturday in April through November 30.

(iii) All anglers age 16 and older must possess a signed refuge fishing permit (signed refuge fishing brochure) when fishing.

(iv) You must stop and pay the daily fishing recreation fee for each Colorado State licensed angler age 16 or older. Payments are made at self-service fishing fee stations, and you must display a receipt of payment or an annual pass while fishing. High school and college students can fish for free with a current student identification card.

(v) We allow bank fishing only at Lake Mary and Lake Ladora.

(vi) We allow wade fishing only in Lake Ladora after Memorial Day.

(vii) Each angler may use only one rod and reel or pole and line with one hook per line, except that we allow a second rod and reel or pole and line with one hook per line with a Colorado State-issued second rod stamp.

(viii) We only allow barbless hooks.

(ix) We only allow artificial lures and flies on Lake Ladora. We allow artificial lures and flies and artificial bait, cut bait, and food products only on Lake Mary.

(x) We prohibit the use of live bait on all refuge waters.

(xi) We only allow catch-and-release fishing.

(xii) We prohibit the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages while fishing.
