
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a signed current refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting. You must have on your person all applicable licenses and permits.

(ii) We prohibit hunting from all refuge structures, canals, and levees; withinmile of canoe trails, campsites, and boat ramps; and in areas posted as closed. We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26&#xB0;27.130. We allow nonmotorized vessels in the Refuge Interior. We allow only one motorized vessel per party.

(iii) Hunters may only enter and leave the refuge at designated entrances.

(iv) We allow only temporary blinds of native vegetation.

(v) Hunters must remove decoys and other personal property from the hunting area at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) Hunters may only use boats equipped with factory-manufactured, water-cooled outboard motors; boats with electric motors; and nonmotorized boats. We prohibit boats with air-cooled engines, fan boats, hovercraft, and personal watercraft (jet skis, jet boats, wave runners, etc.). We allow airboats by permit only (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). We will issue airboat permits through a separate lottery. There is a 35 miles per hour (mph) speed limit in all waters of the refuge. A 500-foot (150-meter) "idle speed zone" is at each of the refuge's three boat ramps.

(vii) Hunters operating boats in the Refuge Interior, outside of the perimeter canal, are required to display a 10-inches by 12-inches (25-centimeters by 30-centimeters) orange flag 10 feet (3 meters) above the vessel's waterline.

(viii) We will allow the use of airboats for a limited number of duck and coot hunters by permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)) during Phase 2 of the State duck and coot season only. We will issue airboat permits through a separate lottery. Contact the Refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.

(ix) Motorized vessels used while hunting must be stopped and shut off for 15 minutes prior to shooting. Permitted motorized vessels must be in place 1 hour before legal sunrise and not move until 1 hour after legal sunrise.

(x) All hunters must leave the hunt area once their bag/tag limit has been reached.

(xi) We prohibit unrestricted airboat travel not associated with hunting.

(xii) All hunters younger than age 18 must be supervised by a licensed and permitted adult age 21 or older, and must remain with the adult while hunting. Hunters younger than age 18 must have completed a hunter education course.

(xiii) No entry and/or limited activity buffer zones or closures may be created to protect endangered or threatened species and other species.

(xiv) Licenses, permits, equipment, and effects and vehicles, vessels, and other conveyances are subject to inspection by law enforcement officers.

(2) [Reserved]
