
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of alligator, white-tailed deer, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (iii), (v) through (vii), and (x) and (xi) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit hunting from all refuge structures and levees; withinmile of canoe trails, campsites, and boat ramps; and in areas posted as closed. We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26&#xB0;27.130. We allow alligator hunting in the Motorized Zone and perimeter canal south of latitude line 26&#xB0;27.130. We allow nonmotorized vessels in the Refuge Interior. We allow only one motorized vessel per party.

(iii) We allow alligator hunting on the refuge 1 hour before legal sunset on Friday night through 1 hour after legal sunrise Saturday morning, and 1 hour before legal sunset on Saturday night through 1 hour after legal sunrise Sunday morning. We allow alligator hunting the first two weekends during Harvest Period 1 (August) and the first two weekends during Harvest Period 2 (September). Following the close of Harvest Period 2, the remaining weekends in October will be open for alligator harvest permittees who possess unused CITES tags (OMB Control No. 1018-0093). Specific dates for the alligator hunt are on the harvest permit issued by the State.

(iv) Alligator hunters age 18 and older must be in possession of all necessary State and Federal licenses, permits, and CITES tags, as well as a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge. They must possess an Alligator Trapping License with CITES tag or an Alligator Trapping Agent License (State-issued), if applicable.

(v) Persons younger than age 18 may not hunt but may only accompany an adult age 21 or older who possesses an Alligator Trapping Agent License (State-issued).

(vi) You may take alligators using hand-held snare, harpoon, gig, snatch hook, artificial lure, manually operated spear, spear gun, or crossbow. We prohibit the taking of alligators using baited hook, baited wooden peg, or firearm. We allow the use of bang sticks (a hand-held pole with a pistol or shotgun cartridge on the end in a very short barrel) with approved nontoxic ammunition (see ยง 32.2(k)) only for taking alligators attached to a restraining line. Once an alligator is captured, it must be killed immediately. We prohibit catch-and-release of alligators. Once the alligator is dead, you must lock a CITES tag through the skin of the carcass within 6 inches (15.2 centimeters) of the tip of the tail. The tag must remain attached to the alligator at all times.

(vii) We allow the use of airboats for a limited number of alligator hunters by permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). Airboat permits will be issued through a separate lottery. Contact the refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.

(viii) Alligators must remain in whole condition while on refuge lands.

(ix) We allow a limited quota permit for the taking of white-tailed deer and incidental take of feral hog in the Refuge Interior, by airboat (requires Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)) and nonmotorized vessels only. Airboat access will be for deer hunt permit holders only.

(x) White-tailed deer and feral hog hunters age 18 and older must be in possession of all necessary State and Federal licenses, permits, as well as a current refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge.

(xi) We have limited quota and specialty hunts for the taking of white-tailed deer, and incidental take of feral hogs during the deer hunts on the Strazzulla Marsh and the Cypress Swamp.

(xii) Motorized vessels used while deer hunting must be stopped and shut off for 15 minutes prior to shooting. Permitted motorized vessels must be in place 1 hour before legal sunrise and not move until 1 hour after legal sunrise.

(xiii) We close the Refuge Interior to all other uses during the limited quota white-tailed deer hunt in the Refuge Interior.

(xiv) White-tailed deer hunters younger than age 18 must be supervised by a licensed and permitted adult age 21 or older, and must remain with the adult while hunting. Hunters younger than age 18 must have completed a hunter education course.

(xv) We prohibit the use of dogs for the take or attempt to take of white-tailed deer and feral hogs. We allow the use of dogs for blood trailing only.

(xvi) We require nontoxic ammunition (see ยง 32.2(k)) when deer hunting on the refuge.
