
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow fishing on all areas of the refuge, except those areas posted as closed to fishing or closed to the public.

(ii) Anglers may only use boats equipped with factory-manufactured-water-cooled outboard motors, boats with electric motors, and nonmotorized boats. We prohibit boats with air-cooled engines, fan boats, hovercraft, and personal watercraft (jet skis, jet boats, wave runners, etc.). We allow the use of airboats by permit only (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). Airboat permits will be issued through a separate lottery. Contact the refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.

(iii) We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26&#xB0;27.130, and perimeter canal. We allow only nonmotorized vessels in the Non Motorized Watercraft Zone, northern portion of Refuge Interior.

(iv) Anglers operating boats in the Refuge Interior, outside of the perimeter canal, are required to display a 10-inches by 12-inches (25 cm x 30 cm) orange flag 10-feet (3 meters) above the vessel's waterline.

(v) We only allow the use of rods and reels and poles and lines, and anglers must attend them at all times. We prohibit the possession or use of cast nets, seines, trot lines, jugs, and other fishing devices.

(vi) We allow frog gigging, bow fishing, and fish gigging in all areas open to sport fishing, except in the A, B, and C Impoundments and Strazzulla Marsh.

(vii) We prohibit frog gigging, bow fishing, and fish gigging from structures and from withinmile of refuge boat ramps, campsites, and canoe trails, and in areas posted as closed.

(viii) We allow the taking of frogs from July 16 through March 15 of each year.

(ix) The daily bag limit for frogs is 50 frogs per vessel or party.

(x) Fish and frogs must remain in whole condition while on refuge lands.

(xi) Frogs may only be taken by gig, blowgun, or hook and line, or by hand.

(xii) We limit frogging or fishing by airboat to nonhunting airboat permittees only.

(xiii) We prohibit commercial fishing, including unpermitted commercial guiding, and the taking of turtles and other wildlife (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).

(xiv) We allow 17 fishing tournaments a year by Special Use Permit only (General Activities-Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).
