
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(c)-(1)We allow migratory game bird hunting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) In Citrus County:

(A) You may take only ducks and coots.

(B) We allow waterfowl hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays during those seasons established by the State of Florida.

(C) We allow the use of dogs when hunting migratory birds.

(D) We require hunters to possess and carry a signed, refuge hunting permit (signed brochure).

(E) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91.4 meters) of any residence or on navigable waterways of Chassahowitzka River, Seven Cabbage Cut-off, and Mason Creek.

(F) We allow temporary blinds and decoys, but you must remove all blinds and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(ii) In Hernando County:

(A) All hunters in Hernando County must comply with the State of Florida Chassahowitzka Wildlife Management Area regulations.

(B) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C), (D), and (F) of this section apply.

(C) We allow hunting of geese, duck, and coot only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.

(D) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91.4 meters) of any residence.
