
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a valid Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge Big Game Quota Hunt Permit purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The quota hunt permit is a limited entry quota permit, and is nontransferable.

(ii) You must have a valid signed Florida Panther NWR turkey hunt brochure, which is free and non-transferrable.

(iii) Each Big Game Quota Hunt Permit is issued for the take of 1 bearded turkey. A family hunt/camp experience permit is issued for take of 2 bearded turkeys.

(iv) We allow bows, crossbows, PCP air guns propelling a bolt or arrow, and shotguns using #2 or smaller shot size.

(v) We require an adult, age 18 or older, to supervise hunters age 15 and younger. The adult must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter.

(vi) Hunters possessing a valid Big Game Quota Hunt Permit purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission may access the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must leave the refuge no later than legal sunset. Hunters possessing a valid family hunt/camp experience permit may remain on the refuge overnight.

(vii) We allow hunting fromhour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.

(viii) We allow only federally approved nontoxic shot (see ยง 32.2(k)).

(ix) We only allow permitted hunters participating in the limited entry quota hunt to operate off-road vehicles (swamp buggies, all-terrain/utility-type vehicles) on designated roads, trails, and firebreaks.

(x) We allow hunters with permits to scout 7 days prior to the individual's permitted hunt.
