
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a valid Lake Woodruff Quota Hunt Permit, which can be purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, and a valid Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge hunt permit (signed annual hunt brochure), which is free and nontransferable.

(ii) All hunters must be on stands or in blinds during deer hunts.

(iii) We prohibit scouting in the hunt area during the quota hunt.

(iv) Hunters possessing a valid permit may access the refuge 2 hours prior to legal sunrise each hunting day. All hunters must leave the refuge within 2 hours of legal sunset.

(v) We allow stands or blinds to be set up 2 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on or before the last day of your permitted hunt. You must clearly mark stands with the hunter's Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) permit number found on your hunting license. No more than one stand or blind per person may be on the refuge at any time, unless a permitted hunter is accompanied by a youth hunter. You must place the stand and/or blind for a youth hunter within sight and normal voice contact of the permitted hunter's stand and mark it with the adult permitted hunter's FWC permit number and the word "YOUTH."

(vi) If you use flagging or other trail marking material, you must print your FWC permit number on each piece or marker. You may set up flagging and trail markers 2 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on or before the last day of the permitted hunt.

(vii) You must check out any game taken during the hunts at a self-check station.

(viii) You may access the Western Unit only by boat.

(ix) Hunters age 15 and younger do not need a quota permit, but they must be accompanied by an adult age 18 or older. Each adult may supervise one youth hunter and must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter; the pair must share a single bag limit unless hunting during a designated family or youth hunt.

(x) We prohibit shotgun loads larger than #2 shot and slugs during turkey hunts.
