
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.28 Florida.
####### Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(j)-(1)We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require all hunters, age 16 or older, to purchase and possess a general refuge hunting permit through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission to hunt during all refuge hunts, unless otherwise exempt. We do not require youth hunters age 15 and younger to possess a general refuge hunting permit.

(ii) Every hunter must possess a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge.

(iii) We prohibit hunting from or within 150 feet (45 meters) of all refuge roads open to public vehicle travel.

(iv) An adult (parent or guardian) age 18 or older must supervise and must remain within sight of and in normal voice contact of a youth hunter, age 15 or younger. An adult may not supervise more than two youths. Youth hunters must meet State hunter-education requirements.

(v) Clothes-type pins or clips with reflective or colored markings can be used for the temporary marking of vegetation in order to identify a route of travel to or from a tree stand. You must remove these pins at the end of deer season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter). Each clothes-type pin or clip must contain the hunting license number of the hunter.

(vi) You may leave a temporary tree stand on refuge property starting 1 week before archery season, but you must remove it by the last day of hog season. All tree stands left on the refuge within the hunt season must display the hunter's hunting license number legibly written on or attached to the stand. You may also use a temporary tree stand during small game season, but you must remove it by the last day of the small game season.

(vii) Hunters must be at their vehicles by 1 hour after legal shooting time.

(viii) We prohibit cleaning of game within 1,000 feet (300 meters) of any developed public recreation area, game check station, or gate.
