
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.

(ii) During the refuge archery season, hunters may only use archery equipment, including crossbows, as governed by State archery regulations.

(iii) During the refuge muzzleloader season, hunters may only use muzzleloading firearms and archery equipment (see ยง 27.42 of this chapter) as governed by State muzzleloader regulations.

(iv) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(v) We allow hunting of deer (except spotted fawns), feral hog, gray squirrel, rabbit, armadillo, opossum, raccoon, beaver, and coyote during the archery season.

(vi) Hunters may take feral hog (no size or bag limit), and a maximum of two deer per day, during the family hunt, except only one deer may be antlerless for each day of the family and senior hunts.

(vii) Hunters must fill out a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) and check all game harvested during all deer and hog hunts.

(viii) Hunters may take only bearded turkeys and only during the State Zone C youth turkey hunts and spring turkey season.

(ix) Shooting hours for spring turkey beginhour before legal sunrise and end at 1 p.m.
