
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(k)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, and coot in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a current, signed Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge hunt permit (signed brochure, non-transferable) at all times while hunting waterfowl on the refuge.

(ii) You must carry (or hunt within 30 yards of a hunter who possesses) a valid State-issued Merritt Island Waterfowl Quota Permit, while hunting in areas 1 or 4 during the State's regular waterfowl season. The Waterfowl Quota Permit can be used for a single party consisting of the permit holder and up to three guests. The permit holder must be present. The Waterfowl Quota Permit is a limited entry quota permit, is zone-specific, and is nontransferable.

(iii) During the State's waterfowl season, we allow hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, and the following Federal holidays: Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day.

(iv) We prohibit hunters entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).

(v) We allow hunting of waterfowl on refuge-established hunt days fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters must remove all equipment and check out at the refuge check station prior to 1 p.m. each day.

(vi) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. for the purpose of waterfowl hunting.

(vii) We require an adult, age 18 or older, to supervise hunters age 15 and younger. The adult must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter.

(viii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 25 feet (7.6 meters), or shooting from any portion, of a dike, dirt road, or railroad grade.

(ix) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 yards (135 meters) of SR 402, SR 406, or any paved road right-of-way. We prohibit shooting over any dike or roadway.

(x) You must stop at a posted refuge waterfowl check station and report statistical hunt information on the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) to refuge personnel.

(xi) When inside the impoundment perimeter ditch, you may use gasoline or diesel motors. Outside the perimeter ditch, you must propel vessels by paddling, push pole, or electric trolling motor.

(2) [Reserved]
