
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a State-issued Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge Big Game Quota Hunt Permit. The Quota Hunt Permit is a limited entry quota permit, is zone-specific, and is nontransferable.

(ii) You must have a valid signed Big Game Hunt Permit (signed annual hunt brochure).

(iii) We prohibit hunters entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).

(iv) We allow hunting within the State's deer season on specific days as defined by the refuge hunt brochure. Each hunt will be a 3-day weekend. Legal shooting hours arehour before legal sunrise tohour after legal sunset.

(v) Hunters possessing a valid permit (State-issued permit) may access the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset. If you wish to track wounded game beyond 2 hours after legal sunset, you must gain consent from a Federal Wildlife Officer to do so.

(vi) We prohibit hunting from refuge roads or within 150 yards of roads open to public vehicle traffic or within 200 yards of a building or Kennedy Space Center facility.

(vii) Each permitted hunter may have one adult guest and one youth hunter per adult. All guests must remain within 30 yards of the permitted hunter. The party must share a single bag limit. Each adult may supervise one youth hunter and must remain within sight and normal voice contact.

(viii) You may set up stands or blinds up to 7 days prior to the permitted hunt; you must remove them on the last day of your permitted hunt. You must clearly mark stands and blinds with your Florida State customer identification (ID) number found on your hunting license. You may have no more than one stand or blind per person on the refuge at any time. You must place a stand or blind for a youth hunter within sight and normal voice contact of the supervisory hunter's stand and mark it with the supervisory hunter's Florida State customer ID number and the word "YOUTH."

(ix) We prohibit all scouting in the hunt area during the quota hunt.

(x) If you use flagging or other trail-marking material, you must print your Florida State customer ID number on each piece or marker. You may set out flagging and trail markers up to 7 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on the last day of the permitted hunt.

(xi) We allow hunters possessing a valid permit to scout within their permitted zones up to 7 days prior to their permitted hunts. You must carry your valid Quota Hunt Permit identifying the permitted hunt zone while scouting.

(xii) You must be on your stand or in your blind while hunting.

(xiii) We prohibit stalking or moving through the hunt area while hunting.

(xiv) We prohibit using dogs for tracking unless authorized by a Federal Wildlife Officer. Dogs must remain on a leash and be equipped with a GPS tracking device.

(xv) You may field dress game; however, we prohibit cleaning game within 150 yards of any public area, road, game-check station, or gate. We prohibit dumping game carcasses on the refuge.

(xvi) Archery hunters must wear at least 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of solid fluorescent-orange color while moving to and from their vehicles, while moving to their stands or hunting spots, and while tracking or dragging out game.

(xvii) There is no bag limit or size limit for the take of feral hogs.

(xviii) You must stop at one of two check stations and report statistical hunt information on the Self-Clearing Check-In/Out Permit (FWS Form 3-2405).
