
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow recreational fishing, crabbing, clamming, and shrimping on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess a current, signed refuge fishing permit (signed brochure) at all times while fishing on the refuge.

(ii) We prohibit anglers entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).

(iii) We prohibit fishing after legal sunset or before legal sunrise, except that we allow fishing at night from a vessel in the open waters of Mosquito Lagoon, Indian River Lagoon, Banana River, and Haulover Canal.

(iv) You may launch boats for night fishing and boating activities only from Bair's Cove, Beacon 42, and Biolab boat ramps.

(v) We prohibit crabbing or fishing from Black Point Wildlife Drive or any side road connected to Black Point Wildlife Drive except from L Pond Road.

(vi) We prohibit launching boats, canoes, or kayaks from Black Point Wildlife Drive or any side road connected to Black Point Wildlife Drive except from L Pond Road.

(vii) Anglers and crabbers must attend their lines at all times.

(viii) We prohibit harvesting and possession of horseshoe crab, frog, turtle, snake, and/or other wildlife (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).

(ix) We prohibit use of personal watercraft, kite surfing, kite boarding, wind surfing, sail boarding, use of air-thrust boats, and use of hovercraft on the refuge or in refuge waters.

(x) We prohibit motorized vessels in the Banana River within the posted "No-Motor Zone," including any vessel having an attached motor or a nonattached motor capable of use (including electric trolling motor).

(xi) We allow vessels drafting 12 inches (30 centimeters) or less (measured while vessel is fully stopped) to be propelled only by poling, paddling, drifting, or electric trolling motors in the established Pole & Troll Zone(s), except in the posted running channels.

(xii) We prohibit fish cleaning on refuge property.

(xiii) We prohibit fishing from, or in the immediate vicinity of, the Manatee Viewing Deck on the northeast side of Haulover Canal.

(xiv) When inside the impoundment perimeter ditch, you may use gasoline or diesel motors. Outside the perimeter ditch, you must propel vessels by paddling, push pole, or electric trolling motor.
