
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of grey squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require refuge permits (signed brochure) for hunting upland game. Each hunter must possess and carry a signed refuge permit while participating in a hunt.

(ii) All hunters must wear 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of fluorescent orange above the waistline while in a designated hunting unit during a refuge hunt.

(iii) You may only use .22 caliber or smaller rim-fire rifles, shotguns (#4 bird shot or smaller) (see ยง 32.2(k)), or muzzleloaders to harvest squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon. In addition, you may use shotgun slugs, buckshot, archery equipment including crossbows, center fire weapons, or pistols to take feral hogs.

(iv) We allow the use of leashed dogs for trailing injured or harvested game.

(v) We prohibit hunting from any named or numbered road (with the exception of persons hunting during the mobility-impaired hunt).

(vi) We prohibit cleaning of game within 1,000 feet (300 meters) of any residence, developed public recreation area, or game check station.

(vii) You must check out all game taken at a game check station. You must use the State harvest recording system to check out all white-tail deer harvested on the refuge.
