
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey in areas and during seasons designated in the hunting brochure subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require State-issued refuge permits. Permits are nontransferable. Each hunter must possess and carry a signed permit when participating in a hunt.

(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (n)(2)(ii) and (iv) through (vii) of this section apply.

(iii) We allow feral hog to be taken during any refuge hunt. There is no limit on the size or number of feral hogs that hunters may take.

(iv) There is a two deer limit per hunt, as specified at paragraph (n)(3)(vi) of this section, except during the youth hunt, when the limit is as specified at paragraph (n)(3)(vii) of this section. The limit for turkey is one per hunt.

(v) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.

(vi) The bag limit for white-tailed deer is two deer per hunt, either two antlerless deer or one antlerless deer and one antlered deer. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). Antlered deer must have at least three points, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or greater on one antler, to be harvested.

(vii) There is one youth white-tailed deer hunt and one youth turkey hunt for youth ages 12 to 17. During these hunts, only the youth hunter may handle or discharge firearms used for hunting. An adult age 21 or older must accompany and remain in sight and normal voice contact of each youth hunter. There is no limit on the number of hogs a youth hunter may harvest during these hunts.
