
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.28 Florida.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, sambar deer, raccoon, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require refuge permits (hunters apply through State for license, and the State charges a fee). The permits are nontransferable, and the hunter must possess them while hunting. Only signed permits are valid. We only allow people with a signed refuge hunt permit or the helpers of mobility-impaired hunters on the island during the hunt periods.

(ii) We authorize three refuge hunts: Sambar deer, white-tailed deer archery, and white-tailed deer muzzleloader. During the sambar deer hunt, only sambar deer, feral hog, and raccoon can be harvested. During the white-tailed deer hunts, only white-tailed deer, feral hog, and raccoon can be harvested.

(iii) We restrict access to St. Vincent Island to the Indian Pass and West Pass campsites. The hunt brochure lists check-in and check-out procedures. We restrict access to the hunt areas to foot or bicycle travel.

(iv) Hunt hours arehour before legal sunrise until 3 p.m. for the sambar deer hunt.

(v) You may set up tree stands only after you check in, and you must remove them from the island at the end of the hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vi) You may retrieve game from the closed areas only if accompanied by a refuge staff member or a Federal Wildlife Officer.

(vii) We limit weapons to primitive weapons (bow and arrow, muzzleloader, and crossbow) on the primitive weapons sambar deer hunt and the primitive weapons white-tailed deer hunt. We limit the archery hunt to bow and arrow, and crossbow. You may take feral hog and raccoon only with the weapons allowed for that period.

(viii) We allow only stand, still, and stalk hunting. We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(ix) You may only discharge muzzleloaders at the designated discharge area between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m.

(x) Hunters must check out at the check station prior to leaving the refuge at the end of their hunt. A refuge staff member or volunteer must check the campsites before the hunters leave the refuge.

(xi) Bag limits are:
