
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a refuge hunt permit (electronic form) for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.

(ii) Hunters must check-in no more than 1 day in advance of the opening day of each hunt. We prohibit check-in after legal sunset of the second hunt day.

(iii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge no earlier than 1 month prior to the opening day of each hunt, but must remove the stand by the end of each hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) Hunters must check-in at the refuge dock prior to setting up camp. We require personal identification at check-in.

(v) Only hunters may camp at the designated camping area during refuge hunts.

(vi) For hunting, we allow only bows as governed by State regulations.

(vii) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these. There is no bag limit on feral hog.

(viii) Refuge personnel must check deer harvested during the scheduled hunt before hunters may remove them from the refuge.

(ix) Hunters must be off the island by 12 p.m. (noon) on Sunday.

(x) We allow mooring of boats to the government dock only for loading and unloading purposes.
