
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Bond Swamp National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(c)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and an additional refuge quota hunt permit for the quota hunts while hunting.

(ii) We allow the incidental take of feral hog with legal weapons during open season.

(iii) We require hunters to report all harvested game at the check station before leaving the refuge (see hunting brochure).

(iv) We allow access to the hunt area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.

(v) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving downed waterfowl during waterfowl hunts.

(vi) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of a road open to vehicle travel or within 200 yards (180 m) of a building.

(vii) We prohibit entry into the designated hunt area by nonhunters during all quota deer-gun and waterfowl hunts.

(viii) We prohibit removal of live hogs from the refuge.

(ix) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(x) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license.

(xi) We prohibit all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) on the refuge except by wheelchair-bound hunters with a refuge Special Use Permit (General Activities-Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).

(xii) We prohibit leaving vehicles, boats, trailers, or decoys on the refuge overnight (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(xiii) We prohibit the possession or use of any suppressors or silencers on any firearm.

(xiv) We prohibit the possession or use of any trail or game camera or leaving any other hunting-related electronic device on the refuge.

(xv) We prohibit the possession or use of any night vision or thermal imaging equipment.

(xvi) We prohibit the possession or use of any electronic calls.

(xvii) We prohibit falconry.

(xviii) You may only place temporary blinds, blind material, and/or decoys on the day of the hunt, and you must remove them by 1:00 p.m. on that same day.
