
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of coyote, armadillo, and feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.

(ii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge during the week preceding each hunt, but must remove the stand by the end of each hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iii) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91 meters) of Harris Neck Road, the refuge entrance drive, Visitor Contact Station/Office, Barbour River Landing, Barbour River Road, or Gould's Cemetery.

(iv) We require hunters to check-in and check-out each hunt day. We require personal identification to check-in and check-out.

(v) We require hunters to check all harvested game at the check station before leaving the refuge each day.

(vi) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these.

(vii) During the gun hunt, we allow only shotguns (20 gauge or larger), muzzleloaders, bows, air rifles (.30 caliber or larger), and air bows, as governed by State regulations. We prohibit the use of centerfire rifles.

(viii) We allow the incidental take of armadillo, feral hog, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations. There is no bag limit for these species.

(ix) The turkey hunt is a youth-only, archery hunt limited to 2 days per year. To participate in the turkey hunt, youth must complete an application (FWS Form 3-2439), submit the completed application to the refuge, and be selected by lottery. Each youth hunter selected by lottery to participate in the turkey hunt must possess a free signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting.
