
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit upland game hunting during refuge deer or turkey hunts.

(ii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting.

(iii) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) to hunt on the Hitchiti Experimental Forest.

(iv) We allow access to the hunt area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.

(v) We allow hunting for raccoon and opossum from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. on the days listed as open in the refuge hunt brochure.

(vi) We only allow .22 caliber or smaller rimfire firearms for raccoon and opossum hunting.

(vii) We allow the use of dogs on designated areas of the refuge for hunting quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum.

(viii) We prohibit possession or use of any suppressors or silencer on any firearms.

(ix) We prohibit possession or use of trail or game cameras or leaving any other hunting-related electronic device on the refuge.

(x) We prohibit possession or use of any night vision or thermal imaging equipment.

(xi) We prohibit possession or use of any electronic calls.

(xii) We prohibit falconry.

(xiii) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid hunting license.
