
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting for white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(2)(iii), (iv), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.

(ii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure), and possess and carry an additional refuge quota hunt permit (requires contact information only) for the quota hunts, while hunting.

(iii) We prohibit buckshot.

(iv) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of a road open to vehicle travel or within 200 yards (180 m) of a building.

(v) You must bring any deer, turkey, or hog you harvest to the refuge check station intact, except entrails, the day you kill them and before you leave the refuge. We prohibit possession of dressed deer, turkey, or hog unless you have checked them at the refuge check station.

(vi) We prohibit all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) on the refuge except by wheelchair-bound hunters with a special use permit (General Activities-Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).

(vii) We prohibit dogs for hunting big game.

(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(ix) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.
