
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow fishing from March 15 to September 30.

(ii) We allow access to the refuge and fishing from only legal sunrise to legal sunset.

(iii) You may keep the following numbers of fish each day: Bass-5, channel catfish-5, sunfish or bream-15, and crappie-15.

(iv) We allow nonmotorized boats or boats with electric motors on all ponds designated as open to fishing.

(v) We prohibit use or possession of alcoholic beverages while fishing on the refuge.

(vi) We allow fishing only with pole and line or rod and reel.

(vii) We prohibit leaving boats or other personal equipment on the refuge overnight (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) We prohibit the use of fish for bait and the possession of minnows.

(ix) We prohibit possession or take of grass carp. You must immediately release any grass carp caught.

(x) We require you to possess and carry a signed refuge fishing permit (signed brochure) while fishing.

(xi) Youth anglers age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid fishing license.
