
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, alligator, feral hog, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section apply.

(ii) To participate in the quota gun hunt for wheelchair-dependent hunters, hunters must submit the Quota Deer Hunt Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System). To participate in the quota youth turkey hunt and learn weekend, youth hunters must submit the Big/Upland Game Hunt Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System).

(iii) You may only use bows, as governed by State regulations, for deer, feral hog, and coyote hunting during the archery hunt for these species.

(iv) You may only use shotguns (20 gauge or larger, slugs only), centerfire rifles, centerfire pistols, muzzleloaders, and bows, as governed by State regulations, for deer, feral hog, and coyote hunting during the firearm hunts for these species.

(v) Hunters may take as many as five deer (no more than two antlered). There is no bag limit on feral hog or coyote.

(vi) We allow only shotguns with approved nontoxic #2 shot or smaller, and bows, as governed by State regulations, for turkey hunting. We prohibit the use of slugs or buckshot for turkey hunting.

(vii) We prohibit catch-and-release of alligators.
