
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.29 Georgia.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a refuge hunt permit for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.

(ii) Refuge personnel must check deer harvested during scheduled hunts before hunters leave the refuge.

(iii) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these. There is no bag limit on feral hog.

(iv) We prohibit the use of buckshot.

(v) We allow mooring of boats to the government dock only for loading or unloading purposes.

(vi) Hunters must check-in at the refuge dock prior to setting up camp. We require personal identification at check-in.

(vii) We allow only hunters to camp at the designated camping area while participating in refuge hunts.

(viii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge no earlier than 1 month prior to the opening day of each hunt, but you must remove all stands by the end of each hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(ix) Hunters must be off the island by 12 p.m. (noon) the day following the last day of the hunt.
