
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.31 Idaho.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must obtain a refuge-specific hunting permit (signed brochure) to hunt deer on the Lake Lowell Unit. Hunters must sign and carry the permit in the field while hunting.

(ii) Hunters may place up to two portable deer stands in the Lake Lowell Unit. Hunters must place stands/platforms by hand. Hunters may place stands/platforms on the refuge no earlier than the beginning date of the assigned hunt permit and must remove them no later than the ending date of the hunt permit. Each stand must display the hunter's hunting license number so that it is legible from the ground.

(iii) In the Lake Lowell Unit, you may only shoot deer while hunting from an elevated tree stand/platform. We prohibit ground stalking and/or still hunting from the ground. We prohibit shooting a firearm or bow while on the ground, except to kill a downed deer.

(iv) Hunters may enter the Lake Lowell Unit no earlier than 2 hours before official shooting hours (hour before legal sunrise) and must leave the area within 2 hours after official shooting hours (hour after legal sunset). Successful hunters may extend their departure time only as long as is necessary to retrieve dead deer.
