
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.32 Illinois.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) On Crab Orchard Lake west of Wolf Creek Road:

(A) Anglers may fish from boats all year.

(B) Anglers must remove all trotlines/jugs from legal sunrise until legal sunset from the Friday immediately prior to Memorial Day through Labor Day.

(ii) On Crab Orchard Lake east of Wolf Creek Road:

(A) Anglers may fish from boats March 1 through October 15.

(B) Anglers may fish all year at the Wolf Creek and Route 148 causeways.

(iii) On A-41 and Bluegill Ponds:

(A) Anglers may fish only from legal sunrise to legal sunset from March 1 through October 15.

(B) We prohibit anglers from using gas-powered boats.

(iv) On Managers, Honkers, and Visitors Ponds:

(A) Anglers may fish all year from legal sunrise to legal sunset.

(B) We prohibit anglers from using gas-powered boats.

(v) Trotlines/jugs:

(A) We prohibit the use of trotlines/jugs on all refuge waters outside of Crab Orchard Lake.

(B) We prohibit the use of trotlines/jugs with any flotation device that has previously contained any petroleum-based material or toxic substances.

(C) Anglers must attach a buoyed device that is visible on the water's surface to all trotlines.

(vi) Anglers may use all legal noncommercial fishing methods, except they may not use any underwater breathing apparatus.

(vii) Anglers may not submerge any poles or similar objects to take or locate any fish.

(viii) Organizers of all fishing events must possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G or FWS Form 3-1383-C).

(ix) We prohibit anglers from fishing within 250 yards (228 meters) of an occupied waterfowl hunting blind.

(x) Specific creel and size limits apply on various refuge waters as listed in the Crab Orchard fishing brochure and the annual Illinois fishing digest.
