
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.32 Illinois.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells while in the field (see ยง 32.2(k)).

(ii) We allow only portable tree stands from September 1 through January 31 of each year. You must permanently attach your State-generated hunter identification number in a visible location on the stand. We allow only one tree stand per hunter.

(iii) On the Fox Island Division, Slim Island Division, Cherry Box Division, and Hickory Creek Division, we only allow archery deer hunting during the Statewide archery season. We prohibit archery hunting during the State firearm season.

(iv) On the Delair Division, we only allow deer hunting during special managed hunts. You must possess and carry a refuge permit (hunt letter) when hunting during special managed hunts.

(v) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.
