
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.34 Iowa.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The refuge manager will annually determine and publish hunting seasons and dates, and will include them in the refuge access permit (signed brochure).

(ii) You must possess and carry a refuge access permit (signed brochure) at all times while in the hunting area. Hunters may enter the hunting areas only within the dates listed on the refuge access permit (signed brochure).

(iii) Hunters with a valid Iowa or Nebraska resident hunting permit may access all areas open to hunting. Reciprocity exists, with both States allowing hunters with either resident permit to access refuge hunting land in either State.

(iv) Hunters holding nonresident Nebraska or nonresident Iowa permits may hunt only on the ground that lies within the State that issued the nonresident permit.

(v) We allow hunters in the designated area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.

(vi) We prohibit the use of a crossbow as archery equipment unless the hunter has obtained a State-issued disability crossbow permit.

(vii) All hunters must be in possession of a valid entrance fee permit.

(viii) Hunters must remove hunting blinds or stands and other property by the close of the season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(ix) We prohibit shooting on or over any refuge road open to vehicle traffic within 30 feet (9 meters (m)) of the centerline.

(x) We prohibit field dressing of any big game within 100 feet (30 m) of the centerline of any refuge road.

(xi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(xii) We allow two portable tree stands/blinds per hunter within the hunt area. Of those, only one stand/blind can be left on the refuge from 1 week prior to the start of the designated hunt season to 1 week after the end of the designated hunt season.

(xiii) Unattended stands and blinds must be plainly labeled with the full name and/or hunting license number of the owner. Labels must be visible from ground level.
