
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.34 Iowa.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow ice fishing in DeSoto Lake from January 2 through the end of February.

(ii) We allow the use of pole and line or rod and reel fishing in DeSoto Lake from April 15 through October 14.

(iii) We allow the use of archery and spear fishing for nongame fish only from April 15 through October 14.

(iv) When the lake is open to ice fishing, we prohibit motor- or wind-driven conveyances on the lake.

(v) We allow the use of portable ice fishing shelters on a daily basis from January 2 through the end of February.

(vi) Anglers may use no more than two lines and two hooks per line, including ice fishing.

(vii) We prohibit the use of trotlines, float lines, bank lines, or setlines.

(viii) Anglers must adhere to minimum length and creel limits as posted.

(ix) We prohibit anglers leaving any personal property, litter, fish, or fish parts on the banks, in the water, or on the ice (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(x) We prohibit digging or seining for bait.

(xi) We prohibit take or possession of turtle or frog at any time (see §§ 27.21 of this chapter).

(xii) We allow anglers on the refuge fromhour before legal sunrise tohour after legal sunset.
