
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.36 Kentucky.
####### Clarks River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of mourning dove, woodcock, common snipe, Canada and snow goose, coot, crow, and waterfowl listed at 50 CFR 10.13(c)(1) under DUCK on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Except for raccoon, opossum, and bullfrog hunting, access to the refuge is from 2 hours before legal sunrise to 2 hours after legal sunset.

(ii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunting/fishing permit (signed brochure) while hunting and/or fishing on the refuge.

(iii) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters) of a residence and discharge of firearms within 200 feet (60 meters) of any home, the abandoned railroad tracks, graveled roads, and hiking trails.

(iv) We allow trail cameras. Trail cameras must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly displayed or we may confiscate them.

(v) We allow the use of dogs for waterfowl, quail, snipe, dove, woodcock, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, opossum, and fall turkey hunting. Dog owners/handlers must have a collar on each dog with the owner's contact information.

(vi) We allow waterfowl hunting from legal shooting time until 12 p.m. (noon).
