
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.36 Kentucky.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section apply.

(ii) We close squirrel, rabbit, crow, woodcock, snipe, dove, and quail seasons during muzzleloader and modern gun deer hunts.

(iii) We allow the use of only portable and climbing stands. You may place stands in the field no earlier than 2 weeks prior to the opening of deer season, and you must remove them from the field within 1 week after the season closes (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter). The hunter's State hunting license number must appear on all stands left in the field.

(iv) You must use safety belts at all times when occupying the tree stands.

(v) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(vi) Ground blinds used for the purpose of hunting any species during the deer modern gun, muzzleloader, and youth firearms seasons must display 1 square foot (144 square inches) of solid, unbroken, hunter orange visible from all sides. You must remove ground blinds when not in use.
