
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(b)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require that all hunters and anglers age 16 and older purchase an annual public use permit (electronic form). You must sign the permit, certifying that you understand and will comply with all regulations. You must carry this permit at all times while on the refuge.

(ii) We allow migratory game bird hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season. We do not open for the special teal season or the State youth waterfowl hunt.

(iii) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of the maintained rights-of-way of roads, refuge roads or designated trails, buildings, residences, or designated public facilities.

(iv) You must remove harvested waterfowl, temporary blinds, and decoys used for duck hunting by 1 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) We allow the use of dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.

(vi) We prohibit any person or group to act as a hunting guide, outfitter, or in any other capacity that any other individual(s) pays or promises to pay directly or indirectly for services rendered to any other person or persons hunting on the refuge, regardless of whether the payment is for guiding, outfitting, lodging, or club membership.

(vii) We prohibit use or possession of any type of trail-marking material.

(viii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote when hunting migratory birds, upland game, or big game species with firearms and archery equipment authorized for use.

(ix) We allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and utility vehicles as governed by State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) regulations and size specifications on designated trails (see ยง 27.31 of this chapter) from scouting season until February 28.

(x) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 2 hours after legal sunset, except that raccoon and opossum hunters during the month of February may use the refuge at night.
