
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (iii), and (vi) through (x) of this section apply.

(ii) The bag limit is one deer per day. The State tagging regulations apply.

(iii) You may possess only approved nontoxic shot while hunting deer on the refuge (see ยง 32.2(k)). The requirement in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii) only applies to the use of shotgun ammunition.

(iv) You must wear a minimum of 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of unbroken hunter orange as the outermost layer of clothing on the chest and back, and a hat or cap of unbroken hunter orange. You must wear the solid-hunter-orange items while in the field.

(v) You may place stands up to 2 days prior to established hunting season dates. You must remove stands by 2 days after the hunting season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). You must mark your State license number on your stand. You are allowed one portable stand or blind on the refuge.

(vi) You must check all deer taken on the refuge before leaving the refuge at one of the self-clearing check stations indicated on the map in the refuge hunting and fishing regulations brochure.
