
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Bayou Sauvage National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(c)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters and anglers must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge hunting and fishing brochure.

(ii) We only allow youth to hunt migratory game birds.

(iii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during hunts. The youth must be capable of and must actively participate in the hunt by possessing and/or firing a legal weapon during the hunt for the express purpose of harvesting game.

(iv) One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times.

(v) Adults accompanying youth on any refuge hunts may participate by hunting (except during the State youth-only seasons), but are not allowed to harvest more than their own daily bag limit (see ยง 20.24 of this chapter). Youth must harvest their own bag limits.

(vi) We allow migratory bird hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.

(vii) We open the refuge to goose youth hunting during any segment of goose season that extends beyond the regular duck season.

(viii) Migratory bird hunters may not enter the refuge prior to 4 a.m. on the day of the hunt and must remove all portable blinds and decoys (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter) no later than 2 p.m.

(ix) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or structure adjacent to the refuge, and we prohibit hunting within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.

(x) We prohibit mud boats or air cooled propulsion vessels, including "surface-drive" boats, except when traversing through the Intracoastal Waterway and the Irish Bayou Straight Canal only.

(xi) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open youth waterfowl season on the refuge.

(xii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, and opossum with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(xiii) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.
