
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Bayou Teche National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(d)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.

(iii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game and migratory game bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.

(iv) We require waterfowl and gallinule hunters to remove all portable blinds and decoys from the refuge by 2 p.m. each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(v) Migratory bird hunters are only allowed to enter the refuge after 4 a.m.

(vi) We allow waterfowl hunting daily until 2 p.m. during the State regular season, State teal season, and State youth and veteran waterfowl seasons. We allow gallinule, snipe, and rail hunting until 2 p.m.

(vii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.

(viii) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.

(ix) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.

(x) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons during any open season on the refuge.
