
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunting of deer only with firearms (see ยง 27.42 of this chapter) during 5 specific days during October and November. A youth gun hunt will occur during the last weekend of October. The general gun hunt will occur during the final full weekend in November. The youth gun hunt includes both Saturday and Sunday. The general gun hunt includes the Friday immediately before the weekend.

(ii) We allow archery deer hunting according to the State of Louisiana archery season. We close refuge archery hunting during refuge deer gun hunts.

(iii) We allow each hunter to possess only one deer per day; the deer may be a buck or a doe.

(iv) Hunters may use only portable deer stands. Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after the season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license/sportsman's identification number clearly printed on the stand.

(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii), (viii), and (x), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section apply.

(vi) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.

(vii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(viii) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations).
