
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, coot, light and dark goose, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We allow waterfowl, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and goose hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m., including waterfowl hunting during the State teal season and State youth and veterans waterfowl seasons. We only allow hunting of woodcock until 2 p.m.

(iii) We allow light goose hunting for that part of the season that extends beyond the regular duck season fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.

(iv) We allow only temporary blinds, and hunters must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.

(vi) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see ยง 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence adjacent to the refuge or oil and gas infrastructure on the refuge, or within 200 feet (61 m) from the center of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use maintained trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.

(vii) We allow migratory bird hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(viii) We allow only reflective tacks as trail markers on the refuge.

(ix) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(x) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl (duck, teal, merganser, light and dark goose, and coot) season on the refuge.
