
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Black Bayou Lake National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(f)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed public use regulations brochure) and must carry and fill out daily a Visitor Check-In Permit and Report (FWS Form 3-2405).

(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge by 1:30 p.m.

(iv) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of the maintained right-of-way of roads and from or across all-terrain vehicle (ATV) trails. We prohibit hunting within 50 feet (15 m) of, or trespassing on, aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities.

(v) Hunters must remove boats, blinds, and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.

(vii) We only allow ATVs on trails designated for their use and marked by signs (see ยง 27.31 of this chapter). ATV trails are closed March 1 through August 31.
