
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Bogue Chitto National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(g)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We only allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, and gallinule fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m. of the State seasons, including during the State teal season, State youth waterfowl season, State veterans season, and special light goose conservation season.

(iii) You must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.

(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.

(vi) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see ยง 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, building, designated camping area, designated parking area, or other designated public facility.

(vii) For the purpose of hunting, we prohibit possession of slugs, buckshot, and rifle and pistol ammunition, except during the deer gun and primitive firearm seasons (see ยง 32.2(k)).

(viii) You may use only reflective tacks as trail markers on the refuge.

(ix) We allow the incidental take of feral hog, raccoon, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(x) We only allow incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.
