
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and quail, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of dogs for rabbit and squirrel hunting, and the incidental take of raccoon, on specific dates listed in the refuge hunt brochure.

(ii) During any open deer firearm or primitive firearm season on the refuge, all hunters, except waterfowl hunters, must wear hunter orange, blaze pink, or other such color as governed by State regulations.

(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (v) through (x) of this section apply.

(iv) You may use .22-caliber rifles or smaller while hunting upland game and ammunition must be size 4 or smaller (see ยง 32.2(k)).

(v) We will close the refuge to hunting (except waterfowl) and camping when the Pearl River reaches 15.5 feet (4.72 meters) on the Pearl River Gauge at Pearl River, Louisiana.

(vi) During the dog season for squirrels, rabbits, and incidental take of raccoon, all hunters, including archery hunters (while on the ground), except waterfowl hunters, must wear a cap or hat that is hunter-orange, blaze pink, or other such color as governed by State regulations.

(vii) We prohibit upland game hunting on days corresponding with refuge deer gun and primitive firearm hunts.

(viii) We only allow quail hunting until 2 p.m.
