
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (v) through (x), and (g)(2)(ii), (v), and (vi) of this section apply.

(ii) Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season opens and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after this season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). We allow only one deer stand per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.

(iii) Deer hunters hunting from concealed blinds must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations) above or around their blinds that is visible from 360 degrees.

(iv) We hold a special dog hog hunt in February. During this hunt, the following conditions apply, in addition to the other conditions set forth in this paragraph (g)(3):

(A) You must use trained hog-hunting dogs to aid in the take of hog.

(B) We allow take of hog fromhour before legal sunrise untilhour after legal sunset.

(C) You must possess only approved nontoxic shot, or pistol or rifle ammunition not larger than .22 caliber rim-fire, to take the hog after it has been caught by dogs.

(v) You must kill all hogs prior to removal from the refuge.

(vi) We prohibit the use of deer and turkey gobbler decoys.

(vii) We prohibit using shot larger than BB-lead, or T-steel, while hunting during turkey season.

(viii) We describe the dates for turkey hunts and deer general gun hunts, youth hunts, and veterans hunts in the refuge user brochure.
