
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow fishing with a rod and reel or a pole and line. We prohibit possession of any other type of fishing gear, including limb lines, gill nets, jug lines, yo-yos, or trotlines.

(ii) We allow recreational fishing, crabbing, or cast netting in the East Cove Unit year-round from legal sunrise to legal sunset, except during the Louisiana west zone waterfowl season or when the Grand Bayou Boat Bay is closed.

(iii) We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting in the Gibbstown Unit's Outfall Canal from March 15 through October 15.

(iv) We allow only recreational crabbing with cotton hand lines or drop nets up to 24 inches (60 centimeters) outside diameter. We prohibit using floats on crab lines.

(v) Anglers must attend all lines, nets, and bait, and must remove same from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) The daily limit of crabs is 5 dozen (60) per boat or vehicle, regardless of the number of people thereon.

(vii) The daily shrimp limit during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season is 5 gallons (19 liters (L)) of heads-on shrimp per day, per vehicle or boat.

(viii) We allow cast netting for bait on both the East Cove Unit and the Gibbstown Unit when the units are open for public fishing only. Anglers must empty cast nets directly into the container from the net. The daily bait shrimp limit is one gallon (3.8 L) per day, per boat, outside the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.

(ix) Shrimp must remain in your actual custody while on the refuge.

(x) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).
