
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Cat Island National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(j)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We allow migratory bird hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge within 2 hours after legal sunset.

(iii) We allow the incidental take of beaver, feral hog, raccoon, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(iv) We allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and utility-type vehicle (UTVs) as governed by State Wildlife Management Area regulations and size specifications on designated trails (see ยง 27.31 of this chapter) from the third Saturday in September until February 28.

(v) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, building, designated parking area, or designated public use facility.

(vi) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.

(vii) We allow waterfowl (duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, and coot) and gallinule hunting daily during the State regular season, including waterfowl hunting during the State teal season and State youth and veteran waterfowl seasons, fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.

(viii) You must remove harvested waterfowl, temporary blinds, and decoys used for duck hunting by 2 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(ix) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.

(x) We prohibit accessing refuge property by boat from the Mississippi River.

(xi) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.

(xii) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.
