
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (vi), (x), and (xi) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery deer hunting, youth deer gun hunting during the first weekend of the State youth firearm season, and one weekend of primitive firearm season on the refuge. We list specific dates of these hunts in the refuge annual user brochure.

(iii) Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season opens and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after this season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). We grant extensions to retrieve stands due to high water refuge closure. We allow only one deer stand or blind per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.

(iv) You may only take one deer of either sex per day during the deer seasons listed. State season limits apply.

(v) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations).

(vi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.
