
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Catahoula National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(k)- (1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow migratory hunting of duck, goose, and coot on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.

(ii) We prohibit migratory game bird hunting during deer modern and primitive firearms hunts.

(iii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.

(iv) We allow the use of only shotguns for hunting migratory birds.

(v) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms.

(vi) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone only).

(vii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day. Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunting area by 1 p.m. (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters (m)) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.

(ix) We prohibit parking, walking, or hunting within 150 feet (45 m) of any active oil and gas facility or equipment.

(x) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.

(xi) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 through the last day of February. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.

(xii) We allow the incidental take of feral hog, raccoon, beaver, nutria, and coyote while hunting with firearms or archery equipment authorized for that hunt.
