
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(v) through (xii) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow deer modern firearm hunting on the area south of the French Fork of the Little River for 2 days in December with these dates being set annually.

(iii) We allow hunting of deer with primitive firearms during the first segment of the State season for area 1, weekdays only (Monday through Friday) and 2 days in December with these dates set annually. We allow either-sex, deer gun hunting for the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday immediately following Thanksgiving Day and for 2 days in December with these dates to be set annually.

(iv) We allow the use of portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after this season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position when not in use.

(v) We allow the use and possession of lead shotgun slugs during deer modern and primitive firearm hunts. We prohibit the use and possession of toxic and nontoxic shot shells during these hunts.

(vi) All hunters must wear and display 400 square inches (2,581 square centimeters) of hunter orange and a hunter orange cap during deer modern and primitive firearm hunts.

(vii) You may take only one deer per day during modern and primitive firearm deer hunts.

(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(ix) We prohibit the use of dogs to hunt and trail wounded deer.

(x) We prohibit use of deer decoys.
