
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(ix) through (xi) of this section apply.

(ii) We require anglers age 16 and older to possess and carry a signed special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone only).

(iii) We allow fishing fromhour before legal sunrise to legal sunset.

(iv) At the Headquarters Unit, we allow year-round fishing on Cowpen Bayou and the Highway 28 borrow pits. We allow fishing on Duck Lake and its tail-waters, Muddy Bayou, Willow Lake, and the Highway 84 borrow pits from March 1 through October 31. We only allow use of a rod and reel or pole with a hook and line attached for fishing in these waters. We prohibit snagging.

(v) At the Bushley Bayou Unit, we allow fishing year-round. We allow trotlines, but anglers must tend them at least once every 24 hours and reset them when receding water levels expose them. Anglers must attach lines with a length of cotton line that extends into the water. We allow the use of yo-yos, but you must attend and only use them from 1 hour before legal sunrise untilhour after legal sunset. We prohibit the use of nets and traps.

(vi) At the Headquarters Unit, we allow the launching of only trailered boats at designated boat ramps. Anglers may launch small hand-carried boats from the bank in other areas. We prohibit dragging of boats or driving onto road shoulders to launch boats.

(vii) We prohibit bank fishing on Bushley Creek and fishing in Black Lake, Dempsey Lake, Long Lake, Rhinehart Lake, and Round Lake during deer modern and primitive firearms hunts.

(viii) We prohibit fishing in Black Lake, Dempsey Lake, Long Lake, Round Lake, and Rhinehart Lake during waterfowl hunts.

(ix) We prohibit taking or possessing frogs and turtles (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).

(x) We prohibit the possession of cleaned or processed fish on the refuge.
