
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Delta National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(m)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, dove, snipe, rail, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We allow migratory bird hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays fromhour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m. during the State seasons, including the regular waterfowl season, the State teal season, State youth waterfowl season, State veterans waterfowl season, and State light goose special conservation season.

(iii) We only allow temporary blinds. You must remove both blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.

(v) We prohibit discharge of firearms (see ยง 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facilities.

(vi) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game and migratory game bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times.

(vii) Migratory bird hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(viii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(ix) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.

(x) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.
