
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Grand Cote National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(n)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow waterfowl (duck, goose, coot) hunting on Wednesdays and Saturdays fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.

(ii) We prohibit teal hunting during the State September season.

(iii) Hunters selected for lottery waterfowl hunts must be present and in possession of written documentation confirming their selection on the day of the hunt.

(iv) We allow no more than three persons to hunt in each of the lottery waterfowl blinds, and hunters must confine all hunting activity to the direct vicinity of the blinds.

(v) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.

(vi) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day.

(vii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote only when hunting for migratory bird, upland game, and big game species with firearms or archery equipment authorized for use.

(viii) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit (electronic form).

(ix) We prohibit hunting or the discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.

(x) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms (see refuge hunting brochure for details).

(xi) Refuge users must enter and exit the refuge only at designated parking areas occurring on the refuge. We prohibit accessing adjacent lands from refuge parking areas or any other part of the refuge.

(xii) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated ATV trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 through the last day of February. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.

(xiii) Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunt area by 1 p.m. (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(xiv) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.
