
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(o)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters may only hunt migratory game birds during designated refuge seasons.

(ii) We require every hunter to possess and carry a valid signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and regulations brochure.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. Shooting hours end at 2 p.m. each day.

(iv) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542), available from a self-clearing check station, after each hunt.

(v) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of refuge canals; waterways; public roads; buildings; aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities; or designated public facilities. Hunting parties must remain a distance of no fewer than 150 yards (135 m) away from another hunter.

(vi) You must remove all hunting-related equipment from the refuge immediately following each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) When migratory bird hunting, you may only use dogs for the purpose of locating, pointing, and retrieving.

(2) [Reserved]
