
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Lake Ophelia National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(p)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow waterfowl (duck, goose, coot) hunting on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the Statewide duck season.

(ii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day. Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunt area by 1 p.m. (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We prohibit migratory game bird hunting during refuge deer primitive firearm hunts.

(v) Except as restricted under paragraph (p)(3)(ix) of this section, we allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote when hunting for migratory bird, upland game, and big game species with firearms and archery equipment authorized for use.

(vi) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated ATV trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 to the last day of the spring turkey season. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.

(vii) We restrict the use of the ATV trails that are designated for physically challenged persons to individuals who possess a State-issued physically challenged program hunter permit or are age 60 or older.

(viii) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit (electronic form).

(ix) We prohibit hunting or the discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.

(x) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms (see refuge hunting brochure for details).

(xi) Hunters and anglers must enter and exit the refuge only at designated parking areas occurring on the refuge. We prohibit accessing adjacent lands from refuge parking areas or any other part of the refuge.

(xii) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.
