
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (p)(1)(v) through (xii) and (p)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(ii) You may harvest only one antlered and one antlerless deer during each of the lottery primitive firearm hunts.

(iii) You may use only portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after the season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge, and deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position and at ground level when not in use.

(iv) All deer gun hunters must wear and display 400 square inches (2,600 square centimeters) of hunter orange and a hunter-orange cap during the deer gun seasons and lottery deer hunts.

(v) Only hunters that have been selected for lottery primitive firearm deer hunts may be present during these hunts.

(vi) We allow the use and possession of lead shotgun slugs during lottery primitive firearm deer hunts. We prohibit the use and possession of toxic and nontoxic shot shells during these hunts.

(vii) We prohibit all other hunting during refuge deer primitive firearm hunts as described in the refuge hunting brochure.

(viii) We prohibit the use of deer or turkey gobbler decoys.

(ix) We allow turkey hunting only during the first 16 days of the State season until 12 p.m. (noon). We prohibit incidental hunting of feral hog while turkey hunting.

(x) We prohibit the use of dogs to trail wounded deer.

(xi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.
