
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Mandalay National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(q)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, teal, merganser, light and dark goose, gallinule (including moorhen), coot, rail, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.

(ii) We allow only youth hunting of migratory game birds and only in the Hanson Unit on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m. of the State teal, youth, and regular waterfowl seasons.

(iii) We open the Hanson Unit only to youth goose hunting during any segment of the goose season that extends beyond the regular duck season on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m.

(iv) Migratory bird hunters are only allowed to enter the refuge after 4 a.m.

(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game and migratory game bird hunts. An adult may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. The youth must be capable of and must actively participate in the hunt by possessing and/or firing a legal weapon during the hunt for the express purpose of harvesting game. Parents or adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that hunters age 15 and younger do not violate refuge rules.

(vi) Adults accompanying youth on refuge hunts may participate by hunting, but are not allowed to harvest more than their own daily bag limit.

(vii) We only allow incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.

(viii) We allow incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.

(ix) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.

(x) We allow only temporary blinds, and hunters must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).
