
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We open the refuge to hunting of white-tailed deer only during the State archery season. We close the Hanson Unit to big game hunting prior to 2 p.m. on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays during State waterfowl seasons.

(ii) You may take only one deer of either sex per day.

(iii) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.

(iv) We only allow portable stands. Hunters may erect temporary deer stands no earlier than 48 hours prior to the start of deer archery season. Hunters must remove all deer stands within 48 hours after the archery deer season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license/sportsman's identification number clearly printed on the stand.

(v) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(vi) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (q)(1)(i), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix), and (q)(2)(iv) of this section apply.
