
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Sabine National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(s)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters may only hunt migratory game birds during designated refuge seasons.

(ii) We require all hunters to possess and carry a valid signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and regulations brochure.

(iii) We prohibit entrance to the waterfowl hunting area earlier than 4 a.m. Shooting hours end at 2 p.m. each day.

(iv) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) from a self-clearing check station after each hunt.

(v) We allow only portable blinds and those made of native vegetation. Hunters must remove portable blinds, decoys, spent shells, and all other personal equipment after each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vi) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of refuge canals; waterways; public roads; buildings; aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities; or designated public facilities. Hunting parties must maintain a distance of no less than 150 yards (135 m) away from another hunter.

(vii) When migratory bird hunting, you may only use dogs for the purpose of locating, pointing, and retrieving.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
