
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Bank and wharf access for fishing are available year-round at the public use areas along State Highway 27. Anglers may access the refuge for fishing by boat only during the March 15 to October 15 open period. You may launch boats at designated boat ramps only.

(ii) We allow fishing with a rod and reel, pole and line, or jug and line. We prohibit possession of any other type of fishing gear, including limb lines, gill nets, or trot lines. Jug line limit is up to 10 per boat, and you must attend them at all times. The angler must mark all jugs with their fishing license number (State requirement) and remove the jugs from the refuge at the end of each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iii) We prohibit fishing from October 16 through March 14 in Units 1A and 1B.

(iv) Anglers can travel the refuge by boat from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset in order to access fishing areas; however, we prohibit fishing activities before legal sunrise and after legal sunset.

(v) We allow recreational crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) We allow only recreational crabbing with cotton hand lines or drop nets up to 24 inches (60 centimeters) outside diameter. We prohibit using floats on crab lines.

(B) Anglers must remove all hand lines, drop nets, and bait from the refuge upon leaving (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(C) We allow a daily limit of 5 dozen (60) crabs per vehicle or boat.

(vi) We allow recreational cast netting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) We allow recreational cast netting from boats only from legal sunrise to legal sunset during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.

(B) Anglers must immediately return all incidental take (bycatch) to the water before continuing to cast.

(C) The daily shrimp limit during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season is 5 gallons (19 liters (L)) of heads-on shrimp per day, per vehicle or boat.

(D) The daily bait shrimp limit is 1 gallon (3.8 L) per day, per boat, outside the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.

(E) Shrimp must remain in your actual custody while on the refuge.

(vii) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).
