
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Tensas River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(t)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) All hunters and anglers age 16 and older must purchase an Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439). This permit allows individuals to participate in open (non-quota) hunting and fishing seasons.

(ii) All hunters and anglers must obtain a Self-Clearing Permit (FWS Form 3-2405), available at refuge entry points and at the Visitor Center, and complete the self-clearing process when exiting the refuge at the end of each day.

(iii) We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, and snipe on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m. during the State season. We prohibit migratory bird hunting during refuge gun hunts for deer.

(iv) We allow refuge hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and they must leave no later than 2 hours after legal sunset unless they are participating in the refuge nighttime raccoon hunt.

(v) We allow all-terrain vehicle (ATV) travel on designated trails for access typically from October 1 to the last day of the refuge squirrel season.

(vi) We prohibit field dressing of game within 150 feet (45 meters) of parking areas, maintained roads, and trails.

(vii) An adult age 18 or older must supervise youth hunters age 17 and younger during all hunts. One adult may supervise two youths during small game and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. Youth must remain within normal voice contact of the adult who is supervising them.

(viii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, beaver, raccoon, opossum, feral hog, armadillo, and nutria during authorized hunts with firearms and archery equipment legal for use during the hunt.
