
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of raccoon, squirrel, and rabbit, and the incidental take of coyote, beaver, raccoon, opossum, armadillo, and nutria, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) through (viii) of this section apply.

(ii) A nighttime raccoon hunt will be conducted during December, January, and/or February, usually in conjunction with the adjacent State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) raccoon hunting season.

(iii) We allow the use of dogs when squirrel and rabbit hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) We allow hunting without dogs from the beginning of the State season to December 31.

(B) From the beginning of the State season to December 31, we do not require hunters to wear hunter orange.

(C) We allow squirrel and rabbit hunting with or without dogs from January 1 to the last day of February.

(D) From January 1 to the last day of February, squirrel and rabbit hunters are required to wear a minimum solid hunter orange cap.

(E) We allow no more than three dogs per hunting party.

(iv) We close squirrel and rabbit hunting during the following gun hunts for deer: Refuge-wide youth hunt, primitive firearms hunt, and modern firearms hunts.
