
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hogs, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) through (viii) of this section apply.

(ii) We require a valid Quota Modern Firearm Permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to hunt during a Deer Quota Modern Firearm Hunt. You must complete and submit an application for all Deer Quota Hunts, and hunters will be notified of their drawing status. If selected, hunters are required to purchase the Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to claim their Quota Modern Firearm Permit for the selected hunt. Hunters must carry a signed paper copy or electronic version of the permit with them on their person while hunting.

(iii) Deer archery season will begin the first Saturday in November and will conclude on January 31, except for during the youth gun hunt and modern firearms hunts, when archery is prohibited.

(iv) The deer primitive firearms season will occur between November 1 and January 31. We allow all legal primitive firearms as governed by State regulations.

(v) During the deer primitive firearms season, hunters may fit any legal primitive firearms with magnified scopes.

(vi) We allow hunters using primitive weapons to hunt reforested areas.

(vii) We prohibit youth hunters from using modern firearms during the primitive weapon hunt.

(viii) During modern firearm hunts, all firearm hunting, even hunting with primitive weapons or muzzleloaders, is governed by applicable Federal and State regulations. We require a quota hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for these hunts.

(ix) During modern firearm hunts, we prohibit hunting in reforested areas. We prohibit hunting and/or shooting into or across any reforested area during the quota hunt for deer.

(x) For the guided quota youth hunts, we consider youth to be ages 8 through 15.

(xi) We will conduct a refuge-wide youth deer hunt that will coincide with the State youth hunt weekend.

(xii) Hunters may take only one deer (one buck or one doe) per day during refuge deer hunts, except that during guided youth and wheelchair-bound hunts, the limit will be one antlerless and one antlered deer per day.

(xiii) We allow turkey hunting in designated areas during the State turkey hunt season not to exceed 16 days.

(xiv) We allow a youth turkey hunt weekend in conjunction with the State youth turkey hunt weekend.

(xv) We allow muzzleloader hunters to discharge their primitive firearms at the end of each hunt safely into the ground at least 150 feet (45 meters (m)) from any designated public road, maintained road, trail, fire break, dwelling, or aboveground oil and gas production facility. We define a "maintained road or trail" as one that has been mowed, disked, or plowed, or one that is free of trees.

(xvi) We prohibit deer hunters leaving deer stands unattended before the opening day of the refuge archery season. Hunters must remove stands from the refuge by the end of the last day of the refuge archery season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters must remove portable stands from trees at the end of each day's hunt and place freestanding stands in a nonhunting position when unattended. Hunters must clearly mark stands left unattended on the refuge with the hunter's last name, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries license number, and I-Sportsman Permit Number.

(xvii) We allow hunting with slugs, rifle, or pistol ammunition larger than .22 caliber rimfire only during the quota hunts for deer. We prohibit use of buckshot when hunting.
