
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.37 Louisiana.
####### Upper Ouachita National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(u)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, dove, rail, gallinule, snipe, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must carry a signed refuge public use brochure and must carry and fill out daily a Visitor Check-In Permit and Report (FWS Form 3-2405).

(ii) Hunters may only hunt during designated refuge seasons as listed in the signed refuge public use brochure.

(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season. Waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge no later than 1:30 p.m.

(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m.

(v) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of the maintained rights-of-way of roads and from or across all-terrain vehicle (ATV) trails. We prohibit hunting within 50 feet (15 meters (m)) of, or trespassing on, aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities.

(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.

(vii) We allow ATVs only on trails designated for their use and marked by signs (see ยง 27.31 of this chapter). ATV trails are closed March 1 through August 31.

(viii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, beaver, and feral hog during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.
