
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.40 Massachusetts.
####### Oxbow National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(f)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl, woodcock, and Wilson's snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunters to enter the refuge 1hours before legal shooting hours, and they must exit the refuge by 1hours after legal shooting hours.

(ii) Hunters must obtain and possess a refuge-specific hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt on the refuge.

(iii) Hunters may begin scouting hunting areas 4 weeks prior to the opening day of your permitted season. We require possession of a valid refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) while scouting.

(iv) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(v) Hunters may use temporary tree stands and ground blinds while engaged in hunting during the applicable seasons. Hunters must mark stands and blinds with their permit number. Hunters must remove all stands and blinds within 30 days after the end of the permitted season.

(vi) One nonhunting companion may accompany each permitted hunter. We prohibit nonhunting companions from hunting, but they can assist in other means. All companions must carry identification and stay with the hunter.

(vii) Migratory waterfowl hunting hours arehour before legal sunrise to legal sunset.
