
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.41 Michigan.
####### Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must remove all of your blinds, boats, and decoys from the refuge each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(ii) We allow refuge access from 1hours prior to legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset.

(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.

(iv) We allow hunting of waterfowl only on the Plum Creek Bay Unit of the refuge and only through boat access.

(v) We allow hunting of waterfowl only on the Brancheau Unit of the refuge as governed by Pointe Mouillee State Game Area special hunt regulations and subject to the following conditions:

(A) You must obtain and possess a State-issued permit for this unit by entering the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' daily drawing at the Pointe Mouillee State Game Area.

(B) You must remain with 75 feet (22.5 meters) of your assigned blind or numbered post. We allow an exception for unarmed (hunting weapons) retrieval of waterfowl.

(C) We allow only nonmotorized boats.

(D) We prohibit shot size larger than BBB.
