
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.41 Michigan.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(ii) For wild turkey hunting, you may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see ยง 32.2(k)) while in the field.

(iii) For deer hunting, you may possess only single projectile shot. We prohibit the use of buckshot for any hunting on the refuge.

(iv) We allow portable tree stands for deer hunting. We allow only one tree stand per hunter per refuge unit.

(v) For Humbug Marsh Mainland only:

(A) You must obtain and possess a State-issued permit for this unit by entering the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' annual drawing.

(B) You must obtain and possess a state access permit (issued by the refuge) for the date on which you are hunting in the Humbug Marsh Unit.

(C) You must hunt from a provided fixed hunting platform and/or blind.

(vi) The Humbug Island Unit is closed to firearm deer hunting. We allow only archery deer hunting on Humbug Island.

(vii) The Fix Unit is closed to firearm deer hunting. We allow only archery deer hunting in the Fix Unit.

(4) [Reserved]
