
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.42 Minnesota.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of ruffed grouse, gray partridge, ring-necked pheasant, American crow, squirrel (gray, fox, and red), snowshoe hare, cottontail rabbit, jackrabbit, raccoon, fox (red and gray), striped skunk, coyote, opossum, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (v) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit single projectile ammunition for hunting upland game and furbearers, except that we allow hunters to use small-caliber rimfire rifles and handguns (.22 caliber and smaller) on designated areas of the refuge.

(iii) We prohibit the use of dogs for hunting furbearers. We allow the use of dogs while hunting upland game birds.

(iv) You may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see ยง 32.2(k)) in the field while hunting turkey.

(v) You may only hunt fox, opossum, and raccoon fromhour before legal sunrise until legal sunset, from the beginning of the State season through the last day of February, on designated areas of the refuge.

(vi) You may only hunt coyotes and skunks fromhour before legal sunrise until legal sunset, from September 1 through the last day of February, on designated areas of the refuge.

(vii) You may only hunt crows during the State-designated crow seasons, which occur between September 1 and the last day of February, on designated areas of the refuge.
