
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart B - Lists
###### ยง 17.12 Endangered and threatened plants.
####### "Listing Citations and Applicable Rules" column.,http://www.fws.gov/endangered/,http://www.itis.gov/

(f)The "Listing Citations and Applicable Rules" column is nonregulatory in nature and is provided for informational and navigational purposes only. Please note that the sections of part 17 that include designations of critical habitat for plants are organized by family name. A link to the Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS), which displays the taxonomic hierarchy of a species, including its family name, is provided on each species' profile page accessible through the Service's Web site () or information is available directly through the ITIS ().

(1) Within the "Listing Citations and Applicable Rules" column, the following superscripts are used:

(2) Listing citations contain the volume, document starting page number, and publication date of thepublication(s) in which a species' status was assessed. At least since 1973, these documents have included a statement indicating the basis for the listing or reclassification, as well as the effective date(s) of the listing or other rules that changed how the species was identified in the list in paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) "Critical habitat" and "Species-specific" rules superscripts provide cross-references to other sections in part 17 or part 222, 223, or 226 of chapter II of this title where critical habitat and species-specific rules are found. The species-specific superscripts also identify experimental populations. Experimental populations (superscript "10j") are a separate citation, with one of the following symbols in the "Status" column: "XE" for an essential experimental population and "XN" for a nonessential experimental population.

(4) This column is for reference and navigational purposes only. All other appropriate rules in part 17, parts 217 through 226 of chapter II of this title, and part 402 of chapter IV of this title apply, if no species-specific rules are referenced. In addition, other rules in this title could relate to such species (for example, port-of-entry requirements). The references in the "Listing Citations and Applicable Rules" column do not comprise a comprehensive list of all regulations that the Services might apply to the species or to the regulations of other Federal agencies or State or local governments.
