
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.42 Minnesota.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of wild turkey; bobcat; ruffed grouse; red, gray, and fox squirrel; cottontail rabbit; jackrabbit; snowshoe hare; red fox; raccoon; and striped skunk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You may only hunt fox and raccoon fromhour before legal sunrise until legal sunset from the beginning of the State season through the last day of February within all upland game hunting areas, and from March 1 through the end of the season in areas open to upland game hunting south of County Highway 26.

(ii) You may only hunt striped skunk fromhour before legal sunrise until legal sunset from September 1 through the last day of February.

(iii) During the fall season, you may hunt wild turkey as governed by State and Tribal seasons and regulations throughout the refuge. During the spring seasons, you may only hunt wild turkey south of County Highway 26, minus the areas east of County Highway 29, north of Pine Lake, and west of Chippewa Water Control Structure Road.

(iv) You may possess only approved nontoxic shells (see 32.2(k)) when hunting wild turkey.

(v) We allow the use of dogs when hunting, except when hunting furbearers, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.

(vi) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (q)(1)(ii), (iii), and (v) of this section apply.
