
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.42 Minnesota.
####### Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(r)-(1)We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit migratory bird hunting from March 16 through August 31 each year.

(ii) You cannot reserve hunting areas, except at Potter's Marsh Managed Hunt Area, Pool 13, near Thomson, Illinois.

(iii) In areas posted and shown on maps as "Closed to All Access," we prohibit public entry, to include hunting and fishing, at all times. This area is named and located as follows: Crooked Slough Backwater, Pool 13, Illinois, 2,453 acres.

(iv) In areas posted and shown on maps as "No Entry-Sanctuary," we prohibit hunting at all times and all public entry except as specified. These areas are named and located as follows:

(A) Pool Slough, Pool 9, Minnesota/Iowa, 1,126 acres.

(B) Bertom Island, Pool 11, Wisconsin, 31 acres.

(C) Guttenberg Ponds, Pool 11, Iowa, 252 acres.

(D) Spring Lake, Pool 13, Illinois, 3,697 acres.

(v) In areas posted and shown on maps as "Area Closed" and "Area Closed-No Motors," we prohibit migratory bird hunting at all times. We ask that you practice voluntary avoidance of these areas by any means or for any purpose from October 15 to the end of the respective State duck season. In areas also marked "no motors," we prohibit the use of motors on watercraft from October 15 to the end of the respective State duck season.

(A) The areas posted and marked on maps as "Area Closed" are named and located as follows:
