
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.42 Minnesota.
####### 8

() Beaver Island, Pool 14, Iowa, 864 acres.

(vi) In areas posted and shown on maps as "No Hunting Zone" or "No Hunting or Trapping Zone," we prohibit hunting at all times. These areas are named and located as follows:

(A) Buffalo River, Pool 4, Wisconsin, 219 acres.

(B) Fountain City Bay, Pool 5A, Wisconsin, 24 acres.

(C) Upper Halfway Creek Marsh, Pool 7, Wisconsin, 143 acres.

(D) Brice Prairie Tract, Pool 7, Wisconsin, 186 acres.

(E) Hunter's Point, Pool 8, Wisconsin, 82 acres.

(F) Goose Island, Pool 8, Wisconsin, 984 acres (also no motors and voluntary avoidance).

(G) Sturgeon Slough, Pool 10, Wisconsin, 66 acres.

(H) Goetz Island Trail, Pool 11, Iowa, 31 acres.

(I) Crooked Slough Proper, Pool 13, Illinois, 270 acres.

(J) Frog Pond, Pool 13, Illinois, 64 acres.

(K) Ingersoll Wetlands Learning Center, Pool 13, Illinois, 41 acres.

(L) Amann Tract, Pool 7, Wisconsin, 0.21 acre.

(M) Lost Mound Unit Office and River Road, Pool 13, Illinois, 175 acres.

(vii) In the area posted and shown on maps as "Mesquaki Lake No Hunting Zone," Pool 13, Illinois, we prohibit hunting migratory birds from April 1 through September 30.

(viii) You may not engage in open-water waterfowl hunting in Pool 11, approximate river miles 586-592, Grant County, Wisconsin, as marked with signs and as shown on refuge maps. Open-water hunting regulations and definitions that apply for Wisconsin outside of Grant County also apply in this area.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.

(x) We allow working a dog in refuge waters by tossing a retrieval dummy or other object for out-and-back exercise.
