
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.42 Minnesota.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit big game hunting from March 16 through August 31 each year.

(ii) In areas closed to public access on the Lost Mound Unit of Savanna District, Illinois, we allow firearm deer hunts as established by the refuge manager.

(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (r)(1)(ii) through (iv), (vi), (ix), (xi), and (xiii) and (r)(2)(v) of this section apply.

(iv) In areas posted and shown on maps as "No Entry-Sanctuary" we allow big game hunting beginning the day after the respective State duck hunting season until big game season closure or March 15, whichever comes first. We describe these areas more fully at paragraph (r)(1)(iv) of this section.

(v) In areas posted and shown on maps as "Area Closed" and "Area Closed-No Motors," we allow big game hunting beginning the day after the respective State duck hunting season until big game season closure or March 15, whichever comes first. In areas also marked "Area Closed-No Motors," we prohibit the use of motors on watercraft from October 15 to the end of the respective State duck season.

(vi) In the area posted and shown on maps as "Mesquaki Lake No Hunting Zone," Pool 13, Illinois, we prohibit big game hunting from April 1 to September 30.

(vii) On refuge-managed lands in Illinois, we prohibit organized drives for deer. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.
