
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), and (ix) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(iii) We prohibit hunting or shooting across any open, fallow, or planted field.

(iv) We allow valid permit holders to possess and hunt from one portable stand or blind on the refuge. You must clearly label your stand or blind with your State license/sportsmen's identification number. Stands left in the area do not reserve the hunting locations. You may place stands up to 7 days prior to the hunt, and you must remove them within 7 days after the refuge's deer season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). We prohibit the placement of ground blinds within mowed trails.

(v) Hunters using a climbing tree stand must use a fall-arrest system manufactured to Treestand Manufacturer's Association standards.

(vi) We prohibit the use of buckshot on the refuge.
