
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(iii) Hunting or shooting within or adjacent to open fields and tree plantations less than 5 feet (1.5 meters (m)) in height must be from a stand a minimum of 10 feet (3 m) above the ground.

(iv) The refuge brochure provides deer check station locations and requirements. Prior to leaving the refuge, you must check all harvested deer at the nearest self-service check station (Harvest Report, FWS Form 3-2542) following the posted instructions.

(v) Hunters may possess and hunt from only one stand or blind. Hunters may place a deer stand or blind 48 hours prior to a hunt and must remove it within 48 hours after each designated hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter), with the exception of closed areas where special regulations apply.

(vi) During designated muzzleloader hunts, we allow archery equipment and muzzleloaders loaded with a single projectile; we prohibit breech-loading firearms of any type.

(vii) Turkey hunting opportunities will consist of three limited draw hunts within the State season time frame. Limited draw hunts require a Limited Hunt Permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) assigned by random computer drawing. At the end of the hunt, you must return the permit with information concerning the hunt to the refuge. Failure to return this permit will disqualify the hunter for any limited hunts the next year.
