
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of rabbit, opossum, coyote, beaver, bobcat, and nutria on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 16 or older hunting or fishing must possess a valid Theodore Roosevelt Complex Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System)).

(ii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be in the presence and direct supervision of a Mississippi licensed or exempt hunter, age 21 or older. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.

(iii) Before hunting or fishing, all participants must display their Daily Visitor Information/Harvest Report Card (Harvest Report, FWS Form 3-2542) in plain view in their vehicle so that the required information is readable. You must return all cards upon completion of the activity and before leaving the refuge.

(iv) We prohibit all other public use on the refuge during the muzzleloader deer hunt.

(v) Valid permit holders may incidentally take opossum, coyote, beaver, bobcat, and nutria in any refuge hunt season with weapons legal for that hunt. Valid permit holders may incidentally take feral hog during deer hunts only.

(vi) We allow the use of dogs for hunting during the February rabbit hunt.

(vii) We prohibit hunting or shooting into a 100-foot (30.5-meter (m)) zone along either side of pipelines, power line rights-of-way, designated roads, and trails, and around parking lots. It is considered hunting if you have a loaded weapon, if you have a nocked arrow while bow hunting, or if you are in an elevated tree stand or ground blind with a means to take, within these areas.
