
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Sam D. Hamilton Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(j)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, light and dark goose, merganser, woodcock, crow, gallinule (purple and common), snipe, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters and anglers must purchase a North Mississippi Refuge Complex Hunting/Fishing Permit (#606), available from the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks (MDWFP).

(ii) Youth hunters age 15 and younger and hunters age 65 and older are not required to obtain a North Mississippi Refuge Complex Hunting/Fishing Permit (#606).

(iii) Hunters must remove all decoys, blind material, and harvested game from the refuge by 1 p.m. each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset, except during raccoon hunts. Waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge no later than 1 p.m.

(v) Each hunter must obtain a daily Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542). Hunters must display the card in plain view on the dashboard of the vehicle. Prior to leaving the refuge, hunters must complete the card and deposit it at one of the refuge information stations. Hunters must include all game harvested and if you harvest no game, report "0". We prohibit hunters possessing more than one Harvest Report at a time.

(vi) We limit waterfowl hunters to 25 shotshells per person.

(vii) Hunters must remove all personal property at the end of each day's hunt from the Noxubee Wilderness Area (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter). Outside the Noxubee Wilderness Area, hunters may leave tree stands labeled with the hunter's State hunting license number used for deer hunting.

(viii) We allow hunting of waterfowl (duck, light and dark goose, merganser, coot, and gallinule) during State seasons, including the State Light Goose Conservation Order, only on Wednesday and Saturdays ending at 12 p.m.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs for retrieval of migratory and upland game only.

(x) We allow incidental take of coyote, beaver, nutria, skunk, fox, and feral hog during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.
