
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vii), and (x) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit the use of buckshot on the refuge.

(iii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(iv) You may place one portable tree stand or ground blind for deer hunting on the refuge only during the open deer season. You must clearly label the stand or blind with your State hunting license number.

(v) While climbing a tree, installing a tree stand that uses climbing aids, or hunting from a tree stand on the refuge, you must use a fall-arrest system (full body harness) that is manufactured to the Treestand Manufacturer's Association standards.

(vi) Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 7 days prior to the hunt, and hunters must remove deer stands no more than 7 days after the refuge's deer season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).
