
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The general sport fishing, boating, and bow fishing season extends from March 1 through October 31, except that we open the shoreline of Bluff Lake from the Bluff Lake Boardwalk to the visitor center, the entire Noxubee River, and all borrow pit areas along Highway 25 to fishing year-round.

(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section applies.

(iii) Anglers must keep boat travel at idle speed, and they must not create a wake when moving.

(iv) When left unattended, anglers must tag fishing gear with their State fishing license number. Anglers must check all gear within 24 hours each day or remove these devices (see § 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) We allow trotlining on the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) Anglers must label each end of the trotline floats with the owner's State fishing license number.

(B) We limit trotlines to one line per person, and we allow no more than two trotlines per boat.

(C) Anglers must tend all trotlines every 24 hours, and must remove them when not in use (see § 27.93 of this chapter).

(D) Trotlines must possess at least 6-inch (15.2-centimeter) cotton string leads.

(vi) We allow jug fishing on the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) Anglers must label each jug with their State fishing license number.

(B) Anglers must check all jugs every 24 hours, and must remove them when not in use (see § 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We prohibit bow fishing after legal sunset.

(viii) We prohibit fishing tournaments on all refuge waters.

(ix) We prohibit the taking of frogs, turtles, and crawfish (see § 27.21 of this chapter).

(x) We prohibit using nets of any type to capture free-roaming fish or wildlife. You may use a fishing net to recover fish caught by hook and line.

(xi) Outside the Noxubee Wilderness Area, anglers may leave trotlines and jugs used for fishing overnight if they are labeled with the angler's State fishing license number.
