
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### St. Catherine Creek National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(k)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunting on Butler Lake, Salt Lake, and Gillard Lake fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.

(ii) We require that all hunters and anglers age 16 and older purchase an Annual Public Use Permit (electronic form). We require the refuge user to sign, certifying that you understand and will comply with all regulations, and carry this permit at all times while on the refuge.

(iii) Hunters must remove harvested waterfowl, temporary blinds, and decoys used for duck hunting by 1 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) We allow only portable blinds.

(v) Hunters only may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 2 hours after legal sunset.

(vi) We allow no more than 25 shotshells per person in the field.

(vii) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of any petroleum facility or equipment, or refuge residences and buildings.

(viii) We prohibit the use of handguns for hunting on the refuge.
