
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer, lottery youth turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow only still hunting.

(ii) Hunters may take only one deer per day.

(iii) You must wear a minimum of 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of unbroken hunter orange as the outermost layer of clothing on the chest and back, and a hat or cap of unbroken hunter orange. You must wear the solid-hunter-orange items while in the field.

(iv) While hunting, all persons age 16 and younger must be in the presence and under direct supervision of a licensed or exempt hunter age 21 or older.

(v) Youth gun hunts (ages 10 to 15) for deer and waterfowl will coincide with designated State youth hunts each year. Youth deer hunters may use any weapon deemed legal by the State except for buckshot, which we prohibit.

(vi) You may place stands up to 2 days prior to established hunting season dates, and you must remove them no more than 2 days after the hunting season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). You must mark your stand with your State hunting license identification number. We allow each hunter one portable stand or blind on the refuge.

(vii) Refuge users must check all deer (name) taken prior to leaving the refuge at one of the self-clearing check stations indicated on the map in the refuge public use brochure.

(viii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(ii) and (iv) through (vii) and (k)(2)(iv) of this section apply.
