
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Tallahatchie River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(l)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, geese, merganser, coot, rail, snipe, woodcock, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) All hunters age 16 and older must possess a North Mississippi NWR hunting permit (code 606, available from the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks). While hunting on the refuge, all persons age 15 and younger ("youth hunter") must be in the presence and under the direct supervision of a licensed or exempt hunter age 21 or older. A hunter supervising a youth hunter must hold all required licenses and permits.

(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset except during raccoon and frog hunts.

(iii) We allow hunting of waterfowl (ducks, teal, mergansers, coot, and geese), rail, and snipe, including under the Light Goose Conservation Order, only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays ending at 12 p.m. (noon).

(iv) Each hunter must obtain a daily Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542). You must display the card in plain view on the dashboard of your vehicle so that the State-issued license number is readable. Prior to leaving the refuge, you must complete the card and deposit it at one of the refuge information stations. Include all game harvested, and if you harvest no game, report "0." We prohibit hunters possessing more than one Harvest Report at a time.

(v) It is unlawful to hunt from or shoot into the 100-foot (30.5-meter) zone along either side of designated roads and parking lots.

(vi) We allow the use of dogs on the refuge when hunting migratory game birds and upland game. We prohibit the use of dogs during big game hunts.

(vii) You must remove decoys, blinds, boats, other personal property, and litter from the hunting area following each morning's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(viii) We allow no more than 25 shotshells per person in the field.

(ix) We allow the take of beavers, coyotes, nutria, and feral hogs during daylight hours only during any open season with weapons and ammunition legal for that season.
