
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (l)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit dogs while hunting deer. We allow the use of dogs to hunt feral hog during designated hog seasons.

(iii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(iv) We prohibit hunting or shooting across any open, fallow, or planted field.

(v) We allow valid permit holders to possess and hunt from one portable stand or blind on the refuge. You must permanently and legibly write your State hunting license number on all stands on the refuge. Stands left on the area do not reserve the hunting locations. You may place stands up to 7 days prior to the hunt, and you must remove them no more than 7 days after the refuge's deer season closes (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Ground blinds may not be placed within mowed trails.

(vi) Hunters using climbing tree stands must use a fall-arrest system manufactured to Treestand Manufacturer's Association standards.

(vii) We prohibit the use of buckshot on the refuge.
