
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.43 Mississippi.
####### Yazoo National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(m)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, merganser, coot, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Each person age 16 or older who is hunting or fishing must possess a valid Theodore Roosevelt Complex Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System).

(ii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be in the presence and direct supervision of a Mississippi licensed or exempt hunter, age 21 or older. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.

(iii) Before hunting or fishing, all participants must display their Daily Visitor Information/Harvest Report Card (Harvest Report, FWS Form 3-2542) in plain view in their vehicle so that the required information is readable. You must return all cards upon completion of the activity and before leaving the refuge.

(iv) We prohibit all other public use on the refuge during all limited draw hunts.

(v) Valid permit holders may incidentally take opossum, coyote, beaver, bobcat, and nutria in any refuge hunt season with weapons legal for that hunt. Valid permit holders may incidentally take feral hog during deer hunts only.

(vi) We prohibit hunting or shooting into a 100-foot (30.5-meter (m)) zone along either side of pipelines, power line rights-of-way, designated roads, and trails, and around parking lots. It is considered hunting if you have a loaded weapon, if you have a nocked arrow while bow hunting, or if you are in an elevated tree stand or ground blind with a means to take, within these areas.

(vii) Hunters must remove all decoys, blind material, and harvested waterfowl from the area no later than 1 p.m. each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving migratory birds.

(ix) We allow goose, duck, merganser, and coot hunting beginninghour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon).

(x) We limit waterfowl hunters to 25 shotshells per person in the field.

(xi) Limited draw hunts require a Limited Hunt Permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) assigned by random computer drawing. At the end of the hunt, you must return the permit with information concerning that hunt to the refuge. Failure to return this permit will disqualify the hunter for any limited hunts the next year.
