
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.44 Missouri.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow big game hunting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(iii), (v), and (vi) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(ii) We require that all hunters complete the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) located at the exit kiosks prior to exiting the refuge.

(iii) We allow archery hunting for deer and turkey during the fall season.

(iv) We allow spring turkey hunting. You may only use or possess approved nontoxic shot shells (see ยง 32.2(k)) while in the field, including shot shells used for hunting wild turkey.

(v) We allow archery hunting in the Expanded General Hunt Area through October 31.

(vi) We allow portable tree stands. You may place a portable tree stand no earlier than 2 weeks before the State archery deer season, and you must remove it no later than 2 weeks after the State archery deer season (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter), except that in the Expanded General Hunt Area, you must remove all personal property at the end of each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). A tree stand left on the refuge must be labeled with hunter's conservation identification number.

(vii) We allow only one tree stand per deer hunter.

(viii) Hunters may use boats to access the hunt area.

(ix) We require hunters to apply for managed deer hunts through the Missouri Department of Conservation internet draw.
