
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.44 Missouri.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Except as provided under paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section, we allow fishing from March 1 through September 30, fromhour before legal sunrise untilhour after legal sunset, on all refuge waters.

(ii) We allow fishing year-round fromhour before legal sunrise tohour after legal sunset on Red Mill Pond, Mingo River (south of Ditch 6 Road), Stanley Creed, May Pond, Fox Pond, and Ditches 1, 2, 3, 6, 10, and 11.

(iii) We allow the use of electric trolling motors outside the Mingo Wilderness.

(iv) We require the removal of watercraft from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) We allow anglers to take nongame fish by nets and seines for personal use only from March 1 through September 30.

(vi) Anglers must attend trammel and gill nets at all times and plainly label them with the angler's conservation identification (ID) number.

(vii) We only allow the use of trotlines, throwlines, limb lines, bank lines, and jug lines fromhour before legal sunrise untilhour after legal sunset. Anglers must mark each line with their conservation ID number.

(viii) We allow the take of common snapping turtle and soft-shelled turtle using only pole and line. We require all anglers to immediately release all alligator snapping turtles.
