
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.44 Missouri.
####### Swan Lake National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(g)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl, dove, rail, snipe, and woodcock on the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require the Missouri Department of Conservation "Green Card" while hunting waterfowl.

(ii) We require Missouri Department of Conservation "White Cards" while dove hunting.

(iii) You must follow designated check-in and check-out procedures.

(iv) We only allow waterfowl hunting during designated days of the waterfowl seasons, late goose season, and Spring Conservation Order season.

(v) We restrict hunting hours to designated times on designated units. You must remove all equipment (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter) and exit units by 1 p.m.

(vi) During the Spring Conservation Order season, you may leave decoys and blinds overnight in your assigned unit.

(vii) You may hunt only in your assigned designated area. We assign designated areas to hunters at the check station.

(viii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.

(ix) We restrict hunting units to parties no larger than four, unless otherwise designated.

(x) We allow hand-pulled carts.

(xi) You must park vehicles in designated parking areas.

(xii) We prohibit hunting or shooting on, across, or within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of a service road, parking lot, or designated trail.
