
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.44 Missouri.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(iii) and (g)(2)(iii) of this section apply.

(ii) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see ยง 32.2(k)) while in the field.

(iii) On the refuge, we allow hunting of white-tailed deer subject to the following conditions:

(A) We require a Missouri Department of Conservation Permit, along with Missouri Department of Conservation hunter identification tags and parking permits (name/address/phone number), to hunt during the managed deer hunt.

(B) You must participate in a pre-hunt orientation for managed deer hunts.

(C) You must hunt in designated areas during designated times.

(D) We allow entry onto the refuge 1 hour prior to shooting hours during managed deer hunts. You must be off the refuge 1 hour after shooting hours, unless the refuge manager or designee has given you permission to stay on the refuge until a later time.

(E) We prohibit shooting from, across, or within 100 feet (30.5 meters (m)) of a service road, public road, parking lot, or designated trail unless authorized by the refuge manager.

(F) We allow use of portable tree stands and blinds during managed deer hunts, and you must remove them at designated times (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). You must attach your conservation identification number to all stands and blinds. During managed firearms hunts, you must mark enclosed hunting blinds and stands with hunter orange visible from all sides.

(G) During special hunts, one nonhunting assistant may accompany youth or hunters with disabilities.
