
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.45 Montana.
####### Lee Metcalf National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(n)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must hunt from an established blind.

(ii) Legal entry time into the hunting area is no earlier than 2 hours before legal shooting hours. All hunters must exit the hunting area no later than 2 hours after legal shooting hours.

(iii) We prohibit wildlife observation, scouting, and loitering during waterfowl hunting season at the waterfowl hunting area parking lot and on the refuge road leading to the waterfowl hunting area parking lot.

(iv) We close the waterfowl hunting area to waterfowl hunting on Mondays and Thursdays.

(v) Each hunter must set the appropriate blind selector (metal flip tag) before and after hunting.

(vi) We prohibit attempting to "reserve" a blind for use later in the day by depositing a vehicle or other equipment on the refuge. A hunter must be physically present in the hunting area in order to use a blind. The exceptions are blinds 2 and 7, which may be reserved for hunters with disabilities.

(vii) No more than four hunters or individuals may use a blind at one time.

(viii) You must conduct all hunting from within the hunting blind.

(ix) All hunters must have a visible means of retrieving waterfowl such as a float tube, waders, or a dog capable of retrieving.

(x) We prohibit falconry hunting.

(xi) We allow the use of a portable ground blind within the immediate mowed area around field blind #13.
