
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.45 Montana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow archery hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit wildlife observation, scouting, and loitering at access points and parking areas.

(ii) Hunters may only enter the hunt area 2 hours prior to legal hunting hours and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal hunting hours.

(iii) We allow archery hunting in the waterfowl hunting area in September, except during the youth waterfowl hunt weekend. We will allow archery hunting on Mondays and Thursdays in the waterfowl hunting area during waterfowl hunting season.

(iv) We allow the use of portable tree stands or ground blinds. You must attach a tag displaying the owner's automated licensing system (ALS) number to each tree stand and/or ground blind you place on the refuge.

(v) Hunters may not enter or retrieve deer from closed areas of the refuge without the consent of an authorized official.

(vi) Hunters with a documented mobility disability may access designated locations in the hunting area to hunt from ground blinds. To access these areas, hunters must contact the refuge manager in advance to obtain a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G).

(vii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.
