
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.45 Montana.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer, elk, moose, and pronghorn antelope on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We limit the number of hunters per day during the general big game season for the area north of South Valley Road, south of Red Rock River Mash, and west of Upper Red Rock Lake to the west refuge boundary. We close this area to hunting by other big game hunters during the general big game season. We select the hunters per day by annual lottery.

(ii) You may hire outfitters or ranchers for the retrieval of big game only.

(iii) We prohibit use of wheeled game carts or other mechanical transportation devices for game retrieval on portions of the refuge designated as Wilderness Area.

(iv) We prohibit horses north of South Valley Road except for the retrieval of big game. We only allow horses for back-country access to the Centennial Mountains south of South Valley Road. We require the use of certified weed-free hay or pellets in refuge parking lots and on refuge roads or trails.

(v) We prohibit hunting and/or shooting from or onto refuge lands from within 50 yards (45 meters) of the centerline of any public road open to motorized vehicles.
