
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.48 New Hampshire.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit hunters from discharging a bow and arrow within 15 feet (4.5 meters), or a firearm within 200 feet (61 meters), of the traveled portion of, or across, any refuge roads or trails.

(ii) We allow hunting for deer during a 2-day hunt during the first weekend of the State's firearms season subject to the following conditions:

(A) We require hunters to have a lottery-issued refuge firearms deer hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) and to possess it at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.

(B) We allow scouting during the week prior to the first day of the firearms deer hunt.

(C) Hunters must check-in with refuge personnel prior to entering the refuge, and must check out with refuge personnel when exiting the refuge.

(D) Hunters must register harvested deer at the refuge check station, if a refuge check station is offered.

(E) Hunters must wear a minimum of 400 square inches (2,581 square centimeters) of solid-colored, blaze-orange clothing or material, in a visible manner on the head, chest, and back.

(iii) We allow archery deer and archery turkey hunting during the fall season subject to the following conditions:

(A) We require hunters to have a lottery-issued refuge hunt permit (Big/Upland Game Hunt Application, FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) and to possess it at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.

(B) We allow scouting during the week prior to the season opening.

(C) We prohibit archery hunting during the 2-day deer firearms hunt, unless the hunter possesses the appropriate firearms deer hunt permit.

(iv) We allow turkey hunting during the spring season subject to the following conditions: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.

(4) [Reserved]
