
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.50 New Mexico.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of mule deer, javelina, oryx, and bearded Rio Grande turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow hunting of bearded Rio Grande turkey for youth hunters in the North Special Hunt Area and South Special Hunt Area during the State-established youth hunt and on weekends April through May during the State-established general spring turkey hunt. All hunters must fill out FWS Form 3-2439 (Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) and pay a fee. The permit is available through a lottery drawing. If selected, you must carry your refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439) at all times during the hunt.

(iii) We allow hunting of bearded Rio Grande turkey on the Bajada Hunt Unit, East Hunt Unit, and West Hunt Unit during the general spring turkey season only, as defined by the State. You may take bearded Rio Grande turkey only with a method allowed within each refuge hunt unit.

(iv) We allow incidental take of feral hog by those legally licensed for, and participating in, other big game hunting activities. You may take feral hog only with a method allowed within each refuge hunt unit. We prohibit the use of dogs for this activity.

(v) In the Bajada Hunt Unit, we restrict the methods of take to bow and arrow, crossbow, and muzzleloader or muzzleloading shotguns only, as defined by the State. In the East Hunt Unit and West Hunt Unit, we allow any legal weapon during State big game hunting designated dates.
