
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.51 New York.
####### Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(d)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, coot, gallinule, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(ii) For hunting of duck, goose, and coot:

(A) We allow hunting on Saturday of the New York State Youth Days.

(B) We allow hunting Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the regular waterfowl season, excluding opening day of deer firearms season.

(C) We require proof of successful completion of the New York State waterfowl identification course, the Iroquois nonresident waterfowl identification course, or a suitable nonresident State waterfowl identification course. All hunters must show proof of successful course completion each time they hunt.

(D) We require a refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System).

(E) We allow hunting from legal starting time until 12 p.m. (noon). We require hunters to return a completed Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) no later than 1 p.m. on the day of the hunt.

(F) Hunters must remain in designated hunting areas, unless actively pursuing downed or crippled birds.

(iii) For hunting of rail, gallinule, snipe, and woodcock, we allow hunting during the State seasons east of Sour Springs Road by all hunters, except we close rail, gallinule, snipe and woodcock hunting during refuge waterfowl hunt days to hunters without a refuge waterfowl permit.
