
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.51 New York.
####### Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl, Canada goose, snow goose, and gallinule on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(ii) For the regular waterfowl season and October through January season for Canada goose:

(A) We require daily refuge permits (FWS Form 3-2542) and reservations; we issue permits to hunters with a reservation for that hunt day. Permits may become available on a first-come/first-served, self-serve basis during New York State's second split, subject to hunting conditions and the refuge manager's discretion. We require you to complete and return your permit by the end of the hunt day.

(B) We allow hunting only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the established refuge season set within the State western zone season, and during New York State's established special hunts, which can occur any day of the week as set by the State. Veteran and active military hunters may be accompanied by a qualified non-hunting companion (qualified companions must be of legal hunting age and possess a valid hunting license, Federal Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp (as known as "Federal Duck Stamp"), and Harvest Information Program (HIP) number).

(C) All hunters with reservations and their hunting companions must check-in at the Route 89 Hunter Check Station area at least 1 hour before legal shooting time or forfeit their reservation. Hunters may not enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise.

(D) We allow motorless boats to hunt waterfowl. We limit hunters to one boat per reservation and one motor vehicle in the hunt area per reservation.

(E) We prohibit shooting from within 500 feet (152 meters) of the Tschache Pool observation tower.

(F) We require proof of successful completion of the New York State waterfowl identification course, the Montezuma nonresident waterfowl identification course, or a suitable nonresident State waterfowl identification course. All hunters must show proof of successful course completion each time they hunt.

(G) You may hunt gallinule and Canada goose on refuge areas designated for the regular waterfowl season only during the regular waterfowl season.

(iii) For Canada goose in September and snow goose hunting:

(A) We allow hunting of Canada goose during the New York State September season and hunting of snow goose during portions of the New York State snow goose season and portions of the period covered by the Light Goose Conservation Order.

(B) You must possess a valid daily hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2542). We require you to complete and return the daily hunt permit card by the end of the hunt day.

(C) For snow goose hunting, hunters may enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area no earlier than 4 hours before legal sunrise. For Canada goose hunting, hunters may enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise.
