
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.52 North Carolina.
####### Mattamuskeet National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(f)-(1)We allow the hunting of tundra swan, goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require refuge-issued permits (name and address) that you must validate at the refuge headquarters, sign, and possess while hunting.

(ii) Refuge personnel will assign you to a hunting blind. You must hunt from your assigned blind.

(iii) Hunters may only shoot crippled waterfowl from outside the assigned blind.

(iv) Hunters may use decoys, but you must remove them from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(v) All waterfowl hunters must check out at the assigned station prior to leaving the refuge.

(vi) Shooting hours are fromhour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon).

(vii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(viii) We allow the taking of only Canada goose during the State September Canada goose season subject to the following conditions:

(A) We allow hunting Monday through Saturday during the State season.

(B) The hunter must possess and carry a validated refuge permit (name and address) while hunting.

(ix) Hunting by youth hunters (age 16 and younger) is subject to the following conditions:

(A) Validly licensed adults, age 21 or older, holding applicable permits must accompany and supervise, remaining in sight and voice contact at all times, any youth hunters. Each adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.

(B) Youth hunters must possess and carry evidence of successful completion of a State-approved hunter education course.

(C) We allow hunting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays during the late and youth waterfowl State seasons.

(2) [Reserved]
