
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.52 North Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The hunter must possess and carry a signed, validated refuge permit (name and address) and a State-issued lottery permit while hunting.

(ii) Hunters may take one antlered deer and one antlerless deer per day, or two antlerless deer per day.

(iii) Hunters may take deer with shotgun, bow and arrow, crossbow, or muzzleloading rifle/shotgun.

(iv) We allow hunters on the refuge from 1 hour before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.

(v) Hunters can use boats to access hunt areas, but we prohibit hunting from a boat.

(vi) We allow the use of only portable blinds and deer stands. Blinds must display hunter orange that is visible from all directions. Hunters with a valid permit (name and address) may erect one portable blind or stand the day before the start of their hunt and must remove it at the end of the second day of that 2-day hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Any stands or blinds left overnight on the refuge must have a tag with the hunter's State hunting license number.

(vii) Hunters must wear a minimum of 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of hunter-orange material above the waist that is visible from all directions.

(viii) An adult may only supervise one youth hunter. The youth hunter must be within sight and normal voice contact of the adult.

(ix) We allow the use of only biodegradable-type flagging.
