
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.52 North Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated dates and areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply (with the following exception to the condition at paragraph (h)(1)(ii): Each adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter).

(ii) We require each person participating in a muzzleloader or firearms quota hunt to possess a nontransferable refuge quota hunt permit. You may apply for quota hunt permits by submitting a completed hunt application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) available at the refuge office.

(iii) During big game hunts, we prohibit hunters from entering the refuge earlier than 4 a.m., and they must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(iv) Youth quota hunts are for hunters ages 10 through 17.

(v) During refuge firearms deer hunts, all participants must wear at least 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of unbroken, fluorescent-orange material above the waist as an outer garment while hunting and while en route to and from hunting areas.

(vi) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(vii) We prohibit placing a tree stand on the refuge more than 4 days prior to the opening day of the deer hunt in which hunters will be participating, except for participants of the youth deer hunt, who may place tree stands no more than 7 days prior to the hunt day. Archery hunters must remove their tree stands by the last day of that hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Muzzleloader and firearms hunters must remove their tree stands by the day after the last day of that hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) You must check all deer taken on the refuge at the refuge check station on the date of take prior to removing the animal from the refuge.

(ix) During refuge muzzleloader and firearms deer hunts, we prohibit all other public use in refuge hunting areas.

(x) We prohibit big game hunting within 100 feet (30 meters) of any vehicle or road open to vehicle traffic.
