
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.52 North Carolina.
####### Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(i)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, swan, dove, woodcock, rail, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require consent from refuge personnel to enter and retrieve legally taken game animals from closed areas, including "No Hunting Zones."

(ii) We require all hunters and anglers to possess and carry a signed, self-service refuge hunting/fishing permit (signed brochure) while hunting and fishing on the refuge. We require all hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone number).

(iii) We allow hunters to enter and remain in hunting areas from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset when we allow hunting in those areas.

(iv) We allow the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) only on designated ATV roads (see ยง 27.31 of this chapter) and only to transport hunters and their equipment to hunt and scout. We allow hunting from ATVs while on these designated ATV roads when they are stationary and the engine is turned off. We allow ATV use only on the ATV roads at the following times:

(A) When we open the ATV road and surrounding area to hunting;

(B) One week prior to the ATV road and surrounding area opening to hunting; and

(C) On Sundays, when we open the ATV road and surrounding area for hunting the following Monday.

(v) We allow the use of biodegradable-type flagging.

(vi) We allow the use of only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of natural materials. You must remove portable blinds at the end of each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We allow the use of dogs to point and retrieve migratory game birds.
