
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.52 North Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply.

(ii) You may hunt turkey only if you carry a valid permit (General Activities Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G). These permits are valid only for the dates and areas shown on the permit. You may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see ยง 32.2(k)) while hunting turkeys west of Evans Road and on the Pungo Unit.

(iii) We prohibit the use of rifles and pistols.

(iv) We allow deer hunting on the Pungo Unit only through the end of October each season, except that we allow deer hunting with archery equipment on the Pungo Unit through the end of November.

(v) We allow hunters to take feral hogs in any area that is open to hunting deer using only those weapons authorized for taking deer. On the Frying Pan tracts, we also allow hunters to take feral hogs, using only those weapons authorized for taking deer, whenever we open those tracts to hunting any game species with firearms.

(vi) We allow the use of only portable deer stands (tree climbers, ladders, tripods, etc.).We require that you remove all stands, blinds, and other personal property at the end of each day (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).
