
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.53 North Dakota.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of fishing boats, canoes, kayaks, and float tubes in designated boat fishing areas from Lake Darling Dam north to State Highway 28 (Greene) crossing for fishing from May 1 through September 30.

(ii) We allow fishing from nonmotorized vessels only on the Beaver Lodge Canoe Trail from May 1 through September 30.

(iii) We allow boating and fishing from vessels on the Souris River from Mouse River Park to the north boundary of the refuge from May 1 through September 30.

(iv) We allow snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), utility terrain vehicles (UTVs), motor vehicles, and fish houses on the ice as conditions allow from Lake Darling Dam north to Carter Dam (Dam 41) for ice fishing.

(v) We allow you to place fish houses overnight on the ice of Lake Darling as governed by State regulations.

(vi) We allow anglers to place portable fish houses on the Souris River north of Carter Dam (Dam 41) and south of Lake Darling Dam for ice fishing, but anglers must remove the fish houses from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We allow anglers on the refuge from 5 a.m. until 10 p.m.
