
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.54 Ohio.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) On controlled deer hunt units, we allow hunting of white-tailed deer only as governed by State regulations and subject to the following conditions:

(A) We require hunters to possess and carry a State-issued permit. You must check in and out at the refuge check station using the State-issued Harvest Card no later than 2 hours after the conclusion of your hunt.

(B) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 feet (45.7 meters) of any structure, building, or parking lot.

(ii) We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated public hunting units of the refuge as governed by State regulations and subject to the following conditions:

(A) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(B) We allow only portable deer stands for hunting. We allow only one tree stand per hunter per refuge unit. We allow placement of tree stands after September 1, and require hunters to remove tree stands by March 1 of each year (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). We require deer stands to be labeled with the hunter's Ohio customer identification number, which is on the hunting license.

(C) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(2)(iv) applies while turkey hunting.
