
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.55 Oklahoma.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We open the deer archery season from October 1 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen deer season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 15.

(ii) We open the deer gun season during the months of October and November. Hunters must pay a fee and obtain a controlled hunt permit through the State.

(iii) We open the turkey archery season from October 1 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen turkey season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 15.

(iv) We open the turkey gun season during the month of April. Hunters must pay a fee and obtain a controlled hunt permit through the State.

(v) Shotgun hunters may only possess approved nontoxic shot (see ยง 32.2(k)) while in the field while hunting turkey.

(vi) You may hunt feral hog during any established refuge hunting season. Signed refuge hunt brochure and legal weapons apply for the current hunting season.

(vii) Hunters may only hunt big game during designated refuge seasons.
