
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.55 Oklahoma.
####### Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(f)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, mourning dove, American coot, snipe, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure.

(ii) We open the refuge to hunting only on Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays, and Tuesdays. We allow hunters to enter the Sandtown Bottom Unit or any portion of Sally Jones Lake beginning at 5 a.m., and hunters must leave the area by 1 hour after legal sunset.

(iii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 50 feet (15 meters) of designated roads or parking areas.

(iv) You must remove stands, blinds, boats, and other personal property from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(v) We prohibit hunters from using refuge boat ramps to access hunting areas outside the refuge boundary:

(A) On days when we close the refuge to hunting for certain species; and/or

(B) When hunting species that we do not allow to be hunted on the refuge.

(vi) We restrict the use of airboats within the refuge boundary to the navigation channel and the designated hunting areas from September 1 through March 31.
