
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart C - Endangered Wildlife
###### § 17.22 Permits for scientific purposes, enhancement of propagation or survival, or for incidental taking.
####### Objection to permit issuance.

(e)(1) In regard to any notice of a permit application published in theany interested party that objects to the issuance of a permit, in whole or in part, may, during the comment period specified in the notice, request notification of the final action to be taken on the application. A separate written request shall be made for each permit application. Such a request shall specify the Service's permit application number and state the reasons why that party believes the applicant does not meet the issuance criteria contained in §§ 13.21 and 17.22 of this subchapter or other reasons why the permit should not be issued.

(2) If the Service decides to issue a permit contrary to objections received pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the Service shall, at least ten days prior to issuance of the permit, make reasonable efforts to contact by telephone or other expedient means, any party who has made a request pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and inform that party of the issuance of the permit. However, the Service may reduce the time period or dispense with such notice if it determines that time is of the essence and that delay in issuance of the permit would: (i) Harm the specimen or population involved; or (ii) unduly hinder the actions authorized under the permit.

(3) The Service will notify any party filing an objection and request for notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section of the final action taken on the application, in writing. If the Service has reduced or dispensed with the notice period referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, it will include its reasons therefore in such written notice.
