
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.55 Oklahoma.
####### Sport fishing.

(4)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Anglers may bank and wade fish with pole and line or rod and reel year-round.

(ii) Anglers may use boats from March 1 through September 30 in designated waters unless otherwise specified on the fishing brochure.

(iii) Anglers may "no-wake" boat fish during the boating season with line and pole or rod and reel, except in areas designated as sanctuary zones.

(iv) Anglers may use trotlines and other set tackle only in the Cumberland Pool (designated areas), Rock Creek, and between the natural banks of the Washita River. Anglers may only use set tackle with anchored floats.

(v) We prohibit use of limblines, throwlines, juglines, and yo-yos.

(vi) We prohibit use of any containers (jugs, bottles) as floats.

(vii) Anglers may fish after legal sunset from a boat (during boating season) in the Cumberland Pool, except in the sanctuary zones. Anglers may fish after legal sunset at the headquarters boat ramp area, Goose Pen Pond, Sandy Creek Bridge, Murray 23, and Nida Point.

(viii) We allow bowfishing in Pennington Creek and the Washita River during daylight hours.

(ix) We prohibit the take of fish by use of hands (noodling).

(x) We prohibit the take of frog, turtle, or mussel (see ยง 27.21 of this chapter).
