
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.55 Oklahoma.
####### Wichita Mountains National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(j)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, merganser, and coot on designated portions of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Hunters must possess a current signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting on the refuge.

(ii) We prohibit waterfowl hunting during the refuge controlled elk and deer hunts.

(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting fromhour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.

(iv) We allow the use of hunting dogs only for waterfowl hunting.

(v) You may only build blinds constructed of natural vegetation materials from the refuge.

(vi) Hunters must remove decoys and blinds from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) We prohibit jump shooting.

(viii) We prohibit hunting within 400 feet (122 meters) of any paved road, parking area, or building/dwelling.

(ix) We prohibit shooting from or across any designated trail, road, or parking area.

(x) We prohibit the use of motorized decoys in portions of the refuge designated as wilderness area.

(xi) We prohibit the use of game carts or other mechanical transportation devices on portions of the refuge designated as wilderness area.

(2) [Reserved]
