
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.56 Oregon.
####### Bandon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and snipe 7 days per week on that portion of the refuge west of U.S. Highway 101 and outside the Bandon city limits.

(ii) On the Ni-les'tun Unit of the refuge, we allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.

(iii) You must remove all blinds, decoys, shotshell hulls, and other personal equipment and refuse from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(iv) Hunters accessing the Ni-les'tun Unit via boat must secure or anchor boats and use established boat launch areas. Hunters may park boats within the marsh while they hunt, but we require boats landing on the bank of the Coquille River within the Ni-les'tun Unit to park within a designated location.

(v) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.

(vi) Hunters may use dogs as an aid to retrieving waterfowl during the hunting season.

(vii) You may enter posted retrieval zones while retrieving downed birds and when traveling to and from the hunting areas. We prohibit discharging firearms while in a retrieval zone.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
