
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.56 Oregon.
####### Tualatin River National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(q)-(1)We allow waterfowl hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Youth age 17 and younger may participate as active hunters. An adult age 21 or older must accompany and supervise youth hunters. We do not allow supervising adults to hunt.

(ii) We allow a maximum of two youth hunters and two nonhunters per hunting blind, for a maximum occupancy of four persons per blind.

(iii) Disabled youth hunters must possess an Oregon Disabilities Hunting and Fishing Permit issued by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) to qualify for preference in using the designated accessible hunting blind.

(iv) We open the hunting season on the last weekend of October, as conditions allow, through the end of the regular State hunting season. We close the refuge for the third-period northwest permit zone goose hunt.

(v) Official hunting start times for game birds are governed by State regulations. Hunting ends at 1 p.m. for the entire season.

(vi) We open the hunt area for access 1hours before legal shooting hours.

(vii) You must remove decoys, other personal property, and trash from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(viii) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving waterfowl.

(ix) All hunters must hunt from designated blinds.

(x) All hunters must have visible means of retrieving waterfowl such as float tube, waders, or a dog capable of retrieving.

(xi) Hunters must check-in and check-out with a refuge representative and submit a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) when checking out.

(2)-(4) [Reserved]
