
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, coyote, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) and (b)(2)(v) of this section apply.

(ii) Each youth hunter (age 15 and younger) must remain within sight and voice contact and under supervision of an adult age 21 or older. Each adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.

(iii) Harvested deer, feral hog, or turkey must be checked at the designated check station prior to removal from the refuge. Hunters must complete the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542).

(iv) During deer and turkey hunts, we prohibit hunters from entering the refuge earlier than 4 a.m. and staying on the refuge later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(v) During the primitive weapons hunt, you may use bow and arrow, crossbows, muzzleloading shotguns (20 gauge or larger), or muzzleloading rifles (.40 caliber or larger). We prohibit revolving rifles and black-powder handguns.

(vi) During modern gun hunts, you may use shotguns, rifles (centerfire and larger than .22 caliber), handguns (.357 caliber or larger and barrel length no less than 6 inches [15 centimeters (cm)]), or any weapon allowed during the primitive weapons hunt. We prohibit military, hard-jacketed bullets, and .22 caliber rimfire rifles during the modern gun hunts.

(vii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(viii) We prohibit adults from possessing or discharging firearms during youth deer or turkey hunts.

(ix) We prohibit placing stands on the refuge more than 3 days prior to the opening day of each big game hunt period. You must remove stands at the end of each hunt period (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).
