
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(ii) Only youth hunters may hunt turkey on the refuge.

(iii) Except for the special quota permit hunts, we allow only archery or muzzleloader hunting for deer. We only allow muzzleloading rifles using a single projectile on the muzzleloader hunts. We prohibit buckshot. During special quota permit hunts, we allow use of centerfire rifles or shotguns. We only allow shotguns for turkey hunts.

(iv) On hunt days, hunters and assistants, parents, or guardians may enter the refuge no earlier than 5 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset. We allow hunting fromhour before official sunrise untilhour after official sunset.

(v) We require all deer taken during any hunt to be checked at the designated refuge check station before removal from the refuge. In addition, all deer and turkey must be tagged (State-issued).

(vi) The refuge daily bag limit is two antlerless deer and one antlered buck that must have at least three antler points on one side. We define a "point" as an antler projection of at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or more in length. The youth turkey hunter bag limit is one male turkey.

(vii) We allow incidental take of feral hog during deer hunts only. There is no size or bag limit on hogs. We may offer special hog hunts during and after deer season to further control this invasive species. We prohibit removal of live hogs from the refuge.

(viii) You must hunt deer from an elevated deer stand. We prohibit shooting big game from a boat.

(ix) All permanently fixed ground blinds are for the mobility-impaired hunt only.

(x) You may use flagging to mark the site of hunter entry from roads or trails and again at the stand site. You may use clothespins with reflective tape between these sites to mark the route to the stand. Hunters must label all such markers with their last name and State hunting license number.

(xi) We require hunters to wear an outer garment visible above the waist that contains a minimum of 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of solid, florescent-orange material at all times during the muzzleloader and mobility-impaired hunts for deer.

(xii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(xiii) We prohibit accessing hunt units by watercraft.
