
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We only allow hunting on the refuge by lottery.

(ii) We require a refuge hunt permit (electronic form) for all hunters chosen in the lottery who are age 16 and older. You must sign the refuge hunt permit and carry it at all times when hunting.

(iii) Hunters must check-in at the designated check station and park in the designated area prior to hunting. We require personal identification at check-in.

(iv) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.

(v) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge during the week preceding the hunt. You must remove your stand at the end of the hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) We prohibit the use of buckshot.

(vii) We prohibit hunting closer than 100 yards (90 meters (m)) to U.S. Highway 278 or the check station area, or closer than 200 yards (180 m) to the residence area.

(viii) Refuge personnel must check deer harvested during a scheduled hunt before hunters leave the refuge.

(ix) You may take five deer (no more than two antlered).
