
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of raccoon and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow only primitive weapons. We prohibit hunting with exploding arrows, centerfire rifles, and handguns.

(ii) All refuge hunters age 14 and younger must show proof of successful completion of a hunter-education/safety course. A properly licensed adult age 21 or older must directly supervise (within sight and normal voice contact) hunters age 14 and younger. An adult may supervise only one youth.

(iii) We require hunters to possess a refuge hunt permit (signed refuge hunt brochure), a valid State hunting license, and government-issued picture identification while hunting.

(iv) You must check in all harvested animals at a designated check station. If no refuge employee is present at a designated check station to check the harvested animal, the hunter must record species harvest information on the provided data sheet (FWS Form 3-2405).

(v) You must check all animals taken on the refuge before removing the animal from the refuge and prior to 8:30 p.m. at the check station.

(vi) We require hunters to make a reasonable effort to retrieve wounded game. You must obtain permission from refuge personnel to enter a "No Hunting Zone" or "Closed Area" for any purpose.

(vii) We prohibit hunting from within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of or across any roadway, whether open or closed to vehicular traffic, or from or within 300 yards (270 m) of any designated hunter check station or residence.

(viii) We open hunting areas from 5 a.m. until 8:30 p.m. during designated hunt periods.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs only for raccoon and opossum hunting. The dogs must wear a collar displaying the owner's contact information.

(x) We allow take of raccoon and opossum only during night hunting from the hours of 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. We prohibit hunting on Saturday nights and Sunday nights. Special State regulations apply for night hunting.

(xi) We only allow take of raccoon and opossum with a shotgun using shot size no larger than #4 or a .22-caliber rimfire rifle. We prohibit possession of buckshot or slugs.
