
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.

(ii) We prohibit night hunting of deer and feral hogs. On the refuge, we define "nighttime" as fromhour after legal sunset tohour before legal sunrise.

(iii) We allow the unlimited incidental take of feral hog while hunting during the day.

(iv) We prohibit trail flagging. You may use clothes pins with reflective tape/tack or commercially made reflective orange glow or trail clips to mark the path to the tree. You must mark all clips and pins with your full name, and you must remove them at the end of the hunt period (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(v) You must hunt deer and feral hog from portable elevated hunting stands. You must wear a safety belt or harness while using a hunting stand. We prohibit ground blinds. We allow only one stand per hunter, and each hunter must clearly mark stands with his or her State hunting license number.

(vi) You may place stands, clothespins, or clips, only on open hunt areas, on the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday immediately prior to each hunt (from 7 a.m. until 5 p.m.). You must remove them by 8:30 p.m. on the last day of each hunt period (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vii) We open the Plantation Islands (Cuddo Unit) to deer and feral hog hunting only from 5 a.m. until 2:30 p.m.

(viii) Shooting hours are fromhour before legal sunrise untilhour after legal sunset.

(ix) We allow the use of nonmotorized boats for accessing the unit's interior canals to inland areas open to hunting.

(x) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a "deer drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.
