
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Waccamaw National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(g)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, dove, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must possess and carry at all times while hunting a signed, current refuge hunting regulations brochure (signed brochure), which serves as the hunt permit.

(ii) Each youth hunter age 15 and younger must remain within sight, within normal voice contact, and under the supervision of an adult age 21 or older, except when participating in the Federal youth days waterfowl hunt, when the youth hunter must be under the supervision of an adult age 18 or older. We do not require youth hunters to have a hunter-education card for migratory gamebird hunting, but they must possess a signed refuge hunting regulations brochure. The supervising adult must comply with all State and Federal hunting license requirements and also possess a signed refuge hunting regulations brochure. Each supervising adult may supervise no more than two youths.

(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting only until 12 p.m. (noon) each Saturday and Wednesday during the State waterfowl season. Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 5 a.m. on hunt days and must be off the refuge by 2 p.m.

(iv) We allow scouting Monday through Friday during the waterfowl season. Hunters must be off the refuge by 2 p.m.

(v) Hunters must remove portable blinds and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vi) We allow the use of dogs only while hunting. We require dogs to wear a collar displaying the owner's contact information.
