
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.59 South Carolina.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) and (iv) of this section apply.

(ii) We allow archery, muzzleloading (black powder), rifles (centerfire larger than .22 caliber), and shotguns according to refuge unit-specific regulations. We allow muzzleloading rifles that use only a single projectile on the muzzleloader hunts. We prohibit buckshot, rimfire ammunition, and full-metal-jacketed military ammunition.

(iii) We allow scouting all year during daylight hours except during the State waterfowl season. During the waterfowl season, the same regulations that apply to scouting for waterfowl (paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section) apply to scouting for big game species.

(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 5 a.m. on hunt days and must leave the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.

(v) We allow harvest of only one antlered deer for each hunt session; you may not exceed harvest of a total of three antlered deer per year. We allow harvest of three antlerless deer per season; you may not exceed harvest of more than two antlerless deer per day.

(vi) You may take feral hogs during refuge deer hunts. There is no size or bag limit on hogs.

(vii) We prohibit hunting on or within 100 feet (30 meters) of all routes marked as roads or trails on the hunt brochure map.

(viii) You must hunt deer and feral hog from an elevated hunting stand.

(ix) We allow only one portable tree stand per hunter, and you must clearly mark it with your State hunting license number. We prohibit placing deer stands on the refuge more than 3 days prior to the opening day of a hunting session. Hunters must remove stands from the refuge no later than 3 days after each refuge big game hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).

(x) We allow hunters to use flagging to mark the site of hunter entry from roads or trails and again at the stand site. We allow hunters to use clothes pins with reflective tape between entry and stand sites to mark the route to the stand. You must label all pins with your last name, and you must remove them at the end of the hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(xi) We require hunters to wear an outer garment visible above the waist that contains a minimum of 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of solid, fluorescent-orange material at all times during big game hunts except for wild turkey.

(xii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a "drive" as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.

(xiii) We allow crossbows only during the big game hunting sessions, when we allow muzzleloaders and modern weapons.

(xiv) Each youth hunter age 15 and younger must remain within sight, within normal voice contact, and under supervision of an adult age 21 or older. Each youth hunter must possess a signed refuge hunting regulations brochure. We require youth hunters who are sitting in a hunting stand by themselves to possess a valid hunter-education card. The supervising adult must comply with all State and Federal hunting license requirements and possess a signed refuge hunting regulations brochure. Each supervising adult may supervise a maximum of one youth.

(xv) We only allow deer and hog hunting on the uplands of Sandy Island during a special archery-only lottery hunt. Hunters must apply for lottery entry (name/address/phone number) and are chosen by a random selection process. There is a quota on the number of hunters selected for this hunt.
