
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.61 Tennessee.
####### Tennessee National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(g)-(1)We allow hunting of Canada goose, dove, and crow on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a refuge hunt permit (name and address) for all hunters age 17 and older. You must carry a valid refuge permit while hunting on the refuge.

(ii) The annual refuge hunting and fishing regulations brochure provides season dates and bag limits.

(iii) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters) of any building, public use road, or boat launching ramp.

(iv) We allow hunters to access the refuge from 2 hours before legal sunrise to 2 hours after legal sunset, except as provided under paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(v) Youth hunters age 16 and younger must be accompanied by an adult 21 years old or older who has a refuge hunting permit on his or her person. The adult must remain in a position to take immediate control of the hunting device.

(vi) We allow the use of dogs for migratory bird, squirrel, raccoon, and opossum hunting.

(vii) You may use only portable blinds, and you must remove all boats, blinds, and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) We allow the take of beaver and coyote incidental to legal hunting activities with legal methods of take for those hunts.
