
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.62 Texas.
####### Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, white-winged, mourning, rock, and Eurasian collared-dove, and rock pigeon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must carry a current signed refuge hunting permit (signed refuge hunt brochure) while waterfowl hunting on all refuge hunt units.

(ii) Season dates for waterfowl will be concurrent with the State, except as specified in the refuge hunt brochure.

(iii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iv) For waterfowl hunting, you may enter the refuge hunt units no earlier than 4 a.m. Hunting starts at the designated legal shooting time and ends at 12 p.m. (noon). You must leave refuge hunt units by 12:30 p.m. For dove hunting, you may enter the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise and must leave the refuge byhour after legal sunset. We close refuge hunt units on Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day.

(v) For waterfowl hunting, we allow hunting in portions of the East Unit on Saturdays, Sundays, and Tuesdays during the regular waterfowl seasons.

(vi) Hunters must check in and out through the check station (FWS Form 3-2405) when accessing the East Unit by vehicle.

(vii) We require hunters to remain in an assigned area for that day's hunt.

(viii) We allow hunters to access designated areas of the East Unit by boat from Jackson Ditch, East Bay Bayou, or Onion Bayou.

(ix) We allow hunting on the East Unit as governed by the State light goose conservation order. Hunt areas are by permit on a first-come, first-served basis the morning of the hunt. We allow a maximum of six persons per field. Individuals in each group must set up and stay in their permitted area and stay within 50 feet (15 meters (m)) of each other unless retrieving goose.

(x) Hunters must set up within 50 yards (45 m) of the post marker and must stay within 50 feet (15 m) of each other unless retrieving waterfowl. We allow a minimum of two, and a maximum of six, persons per permit.

(xi) We allow hunting in portions of the Middleton Tract daily during the September teal season and on Saturdays, Sundays, and Wednesdays of the regular waterfowl season.

(xii) We restrict motorized boats in inland waters of the Middleton Tract to motors of 25 horsepower or less or electric trolling motors during hunting season.

(xiii) You may access hunt areas by foot, nonmotorized watercraft, outboard motorboat, or airboat. Airboats may not exceed 10 horsepower with direct drive with a propeller length of 48 inches (120 centimeters) or less.

(xiv) On inland waters of refuge hunt areas open to motorized boats, we restrict the operation of motorized boats to lakes, ponds, ditches, and other waterways when hunting. We prohibit the operation of motorized boats on or through emergent wetland vegetation.

(xv) On inland waters of the refuge hunt areas open to motorized boats, we restrict the use of boats powered by air-cooled or radiator-cooled engines to those powered by a single engine of 25 horsepower or less and utilizing a propeller 9 inches (22.5 centimeters) in diameter or less during the hunting season.

(xvi) We allow portable blinds or temporary natural vegetation blinds. You must remove all blinds, decoys, boats, spent shells, marsh chairs, and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(xvii) We require a minimum distance between hunt parties of 200 yards (180 m).

(xviii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
