
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.62 Texas.
####### Aransas National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(b)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and merganser on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) For the Matagorda Island upland units, each adult hunter age 17 or older must possess an annual public hunting permit administered by the State.

(ii) Hunting starts at the designated legal shooting time and ends at 12 p.m. (noon) on the Matagorda Island upland units. Hunters must leave upland units by 12:30 p.m. Authorized hunting on other designated areas begins 30 minutes before legal sunrise and ends at legal sunset.

(iii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iv) We allow portable blinds or temporary natural vegetation blinds. You must remove all blinds, decoys, boats, spent shells, marsh chairs, and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(v) For the Matagorda Island upland units, we require all hunters to check in and out at the hunter check station located on the north end of the Island.

(vi) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(2) [Reserved]
