
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.62 Texas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section applies.

(ii) On the Blackjack and Tatton Units, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) We allow sprays and other non-ingestible attractants.

(B) For the archery and rifle season, hunters must obtain a refuge self-clearing permit (FWS Form 3-2405).

(C) The annual refuge hunt brochure provides bag limits.

(D) Hunters must field dress all harvested game in the field.

(E) We prohibit hunting on or across any part of the refuge road system, or hunting from a vehicle on any refuge road or road right-of-way. Hunters must remain at a minimum of 100 yards (90 meters) off any designated refuge road or structure.

(F) We prohibit hunters using handguns during archery and rifle hunts.

(G) We allow use of portable hunting stands, stalking of game, and still-hunting. There is a limit of two portable stands per permitted hunter. A hunter may set up the portable stands during the scouting day, but must remove them when the hunter's permit expires (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(H) We allow the use of only biodegradable flagging tape to mark trails and hunt stand location during the archery and rifle hunts on the refuge. You must write your last name in black permanent marker on the first piece of flagging tape nearest the adjacent designated roadway.

(iii) On the Matagorda Island Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) through (H) of this section apply.

(B) We require all hunters to stay in their designated stand unless they are retrieving game. We prohibit stalking of game.

(C) Each adult hunter may supervise up to two youth hunters.
