
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.62 Texas.
####### Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(e)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, merganser, mourning dove, white-winged dove, Eurasian collared-dove, and rock pigeon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Season dates will be concurrent with the State for the September teal season; youth-only season; duck, coot, and merganser regular season in the Texas South Zone; goose regular season in the Texas East Zone; and dove and pigeon season in the Texas South Zone, including special white-winged dove days, except that we prohibit duck (not including the September teal and youth-only seasons), coot, and merganser hunting on the refuge until the last Saturday in October. If the State-specified duck, coot, and merganser regular season opens later than the last Saturday in October, then hunting on the refuge will open consistent with the State-specified season date.

(ii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge waterfowl hunt units no earlier than 4 a.m. Hunting starts at the designated legal shooting time and ends at 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters must leave refuge hunt units by 1 p.m.

(iv) We allow hunting in the Alligator Marsh public waterfowl hunting area daily during the September teal season and on Saturdays, Sundays, and Wednesdays of the regular waterfowl season.

(v) We allow motorized boats, including airboats, in open tidal waters. We prohibit the operation of motorized boats in shallow waters, through emergent and submergent wetland vegetation, or where bottom gouging would occur. We allow motorized boats to enter shallow water by drifting or polling, or by means of trolling motor where it does not cause damage to vegetation or the bottom.

(vi) You must remove all decoys, boats, spent shells, marsh chairs, vegetation (blind material), and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vii) We require a minimum distance between hunt parties of 200 yards (180 meters (m)).

(viii) We allow the retrieval of downed waterfowl inside a 100-yard (91-m) retrieval zone west of Middle Bayou. We also allow the retrieval of downed waterfowl inside a 100-yard (91-m) retrieval zone around the portions of Alligator Lake that are open to hunting.

(ix) You may access hunt units from land by foot or nonmotorized conveyance from designated parking areas and turn-arounds. You may access public waterfowl hunting areas by motorized boat from State waters, where applicable.

(x) Hunters may enter the refuge dove/pigeon hunt units no earlier than 30 minutes prior to designated legal shooting time and leave refuge hunt units no later than 30 minutes after legal sunset.

(xi) Hunting dove and pigeon in the Farm Field Unit is only allowed after early teal season and will close before the beginning of general duck season in October.

(xii) Hunters must possess a signed brochure on their person while hunting on the refuge.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
