
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.62 Texas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The refuge will determine season dates and bag limits.

(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section applies.

(iii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iv) You may hunt feral hog during any established white-tailed deer refuge hunting season. You must obtain and possess a refuge signed hunt brochure and may only use legal weapons for the current hunting season.

(v) We allow hunters to access the refuge no more than 2 hours before legal sunrise and no more than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(vi) You may participate in the refuge firearms drawn deer hunt only with a Texas Parks and Wildlife Department-drawn hunt permit.

(vii) We allow the use of only portable blinds and tree stands on the refuge. You must remove blinds, tree stands, and all other personal equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) We allow all-terrain vehicles for medically documented disabled hunters by Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G only).

(4) [Reserved]
