
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.62 Texas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require a limited hunt permit (name only) for controlled hunts for archery deer, hunts for feral hog, and spring wild turkey hunts.

(ii) We require feral hog and turkey hunters to self-check-in and self-check-out (FWS Form 3-2405), with the exception of Nocona Unit.

(iii) We require controlled deer hunters to check in and out (FWS Form 3-2405) at the refuge check station.

(iv) We allow muzzleloaders, bow and arrow, and shotguns only for feral hog and spring turkey hunts. You may possess only lead-free, approved nontoxic (steel, bismuth, copper, or tungsten; see ยง 32.2(k)) bullets, slugs, and shot (00 buck for hogs, no shell larger than #4 shot size for turkey).

(v) We require all hunters to check-in, show proof of personal identification, and produce a valid limited hunt permit (name only) prior to the hunt.

(vi) We limit each hunter to one stand, which the hunter may place on the refuge during the day preceding each hunt. You must remove all stands by legal sunset on the last day of each hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(vii) Hunters must check all game harvested during limited hunts at the refuge check station the same day of the kill and prior to leaving the refuge for the day.

(viii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) and (v) of this section apply.

(ix) We require proof of completion of a bow hunter education course for all archery deer hunting.

(x) We require annual successful completion of an archery proficiency test with a score of 80 percent or higher for all deer hunt permit holders.

(xi) We allow hunting only from stands or blinds, or by stalking.

(xii) We prohibit cutting of trees or limbs greater than 1 inch (2.5 centimeters).

(xiii) We allow hunters with valid limited permits to place hunt stands on trees the day before their hunt segment begins, but they must first check-in at the hunter check station. They may not enter any hunt unit until 8 a.m., and they must leave the unit by 2 p.m. We will disqualify anyone in violation from hunting.
