
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.62 Texas.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, nilgai antelope, other exotic ungulates, and American alligator on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the incidental take of nilgai antelope, feral hog, and other rarely observed exotic ungulates (such as fallow deer, axis deer, sika deer, Barbary sheep, and black buck) during all refuge hunts, with the exception of American alligator hunts.

(ii) We require hunters to attend refuge hunter orientation before hunting on the refuge. We require each hunter to obtain and carry with them a signed and dated refuge hunt brochure in addition to the State hunt permit.

(iii) Bag limits for species hunted on the refuge are provided in the refuge hunt brochure annually.

(iv) We allow a scouting period prior to the commencement of each refuge hunt period. A permitted hunter and a limit of two non-permitted individuals may enter the hunt units during the scouting period, which begins after hunter orientation and ends at legal sunset. Each hunter must clearly display a Vehicle Validation Tag (FWS Form 3-2405) face up on the vehicle dashboard when scouting and hunting.

(v) We allow hunters to enter the refuge 1hours before legal sunrise during their permitted hunt periods. Hunters must leave the hunt units no later than 1 hour after State legal shooting hours.

(vi) Hunters may access hunt units only by foot or bicycle.

(vii) We allow hunting from portable stands or by stalking and still hunting. There is a limit of one blind or stand per permitted hunter. Hunters must attach hunter identification (permit number or State license number) to the blind or stand. Hunters must remove all blinds and stands at the end of the permitted hunt period (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(viii) During American alligator hunts, we allow hunters to leave hooks set over only one night period at a time; set lines must be checked daily.

(ix) Hunters must field dress all harvested big game in the field and check the game at the hunt check station before removal from the refuge. Hunters may use a nonmotorized cart to assist with the transportation of harvested game animals.

(x) We prohibit the killing or wounding of a game animal and then intentionally or knowingly failing to make a reasonable effort to retrieve and include it in the hunter's bag limit.
