
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.62 Texas.
####### McFaddin National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(k)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Season dates will be concurrent with the State for the September teal season, youth-only season, and duck and coot regular season in the Texas South Zone, and goose regular season in the Texas East Zone, with the exception that we prohibit duck (not including the September teal and youth-only seasons) and coot hunting on the refuge until the last Saturday in October. If the State-specified duck and coot regular season opens later than the last Saturday in October, then hunting on the refuge will open consistent with the State-specified season date.

(ii) You must possess and carry a current signed refuge hunting permit (signed refuge hunt brochure) while hunting on all units of the refuge.

(iii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iv) Hunters must enter the refuge hunt units between 4 a.m. andhour before the designated legal shooting time. Hunting starts at legal shooting time and ends at 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters must leave refuge hunt units by 12:30 p.m. We close refuge hunt units on Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day.

(v) You may access hunt areas by foot, nonmotorized watercraft, outboard motorboat, or airboat. Airboats may not exceed 10 horsepower with direct drive with a propeller length of 48 inches (120 centimeters) or less. Engines may not exceed 2 cylinders and 484 cc.

(vi) We allow hunting in the Star Lake/Clam Lake Hunt Unit daily during the special teal season and on Saturdays, Sundays, and Tuesdays of the regular waterfowl season. During the regular waterfowl season only, all hunters hunting the Star Lake/Clam Lake Hunt Units must register at the check station (FWS Form 3-2405), including those accessing the unit from the beach along the Brine Line or Perkins Levee.

(vii) We allow hunting in the Central Hunt Units daily during the September teal season and on Saturdays, Sundays, and Tuesdays of the regular waterfowl season.

(viii) We only allow hunting in the Spaced Hunt Units on Saturdays, Sundays, and Tuesdays of the regular waterfowl season. We allow a maximum of four hunters per area. Hunters must possess and carry Special Fee Area Permits (signed refuge hunt brochure) while hunting.

(ix) We allow daily hunting in the Mud Bayou Hunt Unit during the September teal season and on Sundays, Wednesdays, and Fridays of the regular waterfowl season. We allow access by foot from the beach at designated crossings or by boat from the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway via Mud Bayou.

(x) On inland waters of the refuge hunt area open to motorized boats, we restrict the use of boats powered by air-cooled or radiator-cooled engines to those powered by a single engine of 25 horsepower or less and utilizing a propeller 9 inches (22.5 centimeters) in diameter or less during the hunting season.

(xi) We allow portable blinds and temporary natural vegetation blinds. You must remove all blinds, decoys, boats, spent shells, marsh chairs, and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(xii) We require a minimum distance between hunt parties, and between hunters and drivable roads and buildings, of 200 yards (183 meters).

(xiii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
