
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.62 Texas.
####### San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(n)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) Season dates will be concurrent with the State for the September teal season, youth-only season, and duck and coot regular season in the Texas South Zone, and goose regular season in the Texas East Zone, with the exception that we prohibit duck (not including the September teal and youth-only seasons) and coot hunting on the refuge until the last Saturday in October. If the State-specified duck and coot regular season opens later than the last Saturday in October, then hunting on the refuge will open consistent with the State-specified season date.

(ii) Hunters age 17 and younger must be under the direct supervision of an adult age 18 or older.

(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge hunt units no earlier than 4 a.m. Hunting starts at the designated legal shooting time and ends at 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters must leave refuge hunt units by 1 p.m.

(iv) We require hunters to use the Waterfowl Lottery Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application-National Wildlife Refuge System) for the Sargent Permit Waterfowl Hunt Area. Hunters must abide by all terms and conditions set by the permit.

(v) We allow motorized boats, including airboats, in open tidal waters. We prohibit the operation of motorized boats in shallow waters, through emergent and submergent wetland vegetation, or where bottom gouging would occur. We allow motorized boats to enter shallow water by drifting or polling, or by means of trolling motor where it does not cause damage to vegetation or the bottom.

(vi) You must remove all decoys, boats, spent shells, marsh chairs, vegetation (blind material), and other equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vii) We require a minimum distance between hunt parties of 200 yards (180 meters).

(viii) We restrict vehicle access to designated roads. You may access hunt units from land by foot or nonmotorized conveyance from designated parking areas or turn-arounds. You may access public waterfowl hunting areas by motorized boat from State waters, where applicable.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
