
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.62 Texas.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting for squirrel and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We require hunters to possess a refuge permit (signed refuge hunt brochure). The hunter must carry the nontransferable permit at all times while hunting.

(ii) We require that refuge hunters turn in the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) by the date specified on the permit. Failure to submit the report will render the hunter ineligible for the next year's limited upland game hunt.

(iii) The condition set forth at paragraph (p)(1)(v) of this section applies.

(iv) We allow all-terrain vehicle use for hunters with disabilities in designated units.

(v) We require a minimum distance between hunt parties of 200 yards (180 meters). Hunters must visibly wear 400 square inches (2,600 square centimeters) of hunter orange above the waist and a solid hunter-orange hat or cap.

(vi) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4:30 a.m. We allow hunting fromhour before legal sunrise to legal sunset only during the days specified on the permit.

(vii) Hunters may place no more than one temporary stand on the refuge. Hunters may place the stand during the scouting week before the hunt begins and must remove it the day the hunt ends (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters must label blinds with the name of the permit holder. We prohibit hunting or erection of blinds on refuge roads or mowed/maintained trails.
