
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.64 Vermont.
####### Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(a)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, brant, merganser, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations, except hunters using more than two dogs must possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(ii) We require the use of dogs for hunting waterfowl in the Maquam Swamp, Long Marsh Channel/Metcalfe Island, and Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole areas.

(iii) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.

(iv) In the controlled waterfowl hunting areas:

(A) Hunters must possess a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439).

(B) Hunters may only hunt within 100 feet (30 meters) of a numbered stake placed by the refuge staff.

(v) In the Delta Lakeshore Area, we prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(vi) In the Maquam Shore Area:

(A) We do not require a refuge permit to hunt or scout in this area.

(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(vii) In the Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole, each hunting party must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for the specific zone on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(viii) In the Junior Waterfowl Hunting Area:

(A) Each junior hunter must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for the assigned blind site and day. On Mentor Day, mentors must also possess and carry this permit for the assigned blind site. Each adult hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind site and day they are hunting. Permits are not transferable.

(B) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(C) We limit hunting to Saturdays, Sundays, and Wednesdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.

(ix) In the Long Marsh Channel and Metcalfe Island:

(A) We limit hunting to Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.

(B) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(C) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(D) We close this area to waterfowl hunting during split seasons when geese are the only waterfowl that hunters may legally take.
