
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.65 Virginia.
####### Migratory game bird hunting.

(c) Eastern Shore of Virginia National Wildlife Refuge-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl, rail, snipe, gallinule, coot, woodcock, dove, and crow on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow holders of a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) to access areas of the refuge typically closed to the non-hunting public. All occupants of a vehicle or hunt party must possess a signed brochure and be actively engaged in hunting. We allow an exception for those persons aiding a disabled person who possesses a valid State-issued Commonwealth of Virginia Disabled Resident Lifetime License or Commonwealth of Virginia Resident Disabled Veteran's Lifetime License.

(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours prior to legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting consistent with State and Northampton County regulations on designated areas of the refuge.

(iv) We allow hunting on the refuge only from September 1 until February 28. Hunting will follow State seasons during that period.

(v) You may not hunt, discharge a firearm, or nock an arrow or crossbow bolt outside of designated hunt areas or within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of a building, road or improved trail.

(vi) We prohibit the use of permanent blinds and pit blinds. You must remove portable blinds and decoys at the end of each day's hunt.
