
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.65 Virginia.
####### Fisherman Island National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(f)-(1)We allow hunting of waterfowl, rail, snipe, gallinule/moorhen, coot, woodcock, dove, and crow on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(ii) We allow holders of a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) to access areas of the refuge typically closed to the non-hunting public. All occupants of a vehicle, boat, or hunt party must possess a signed brochure and be actively engaged in hunting. We allow an exception for those persons aiding a disabled person who possesses a valid State-issued Commonwealth of Virginia Disabled Resident Lifetime License or Commonwealth of Virginia Resident Disabled Veteran's Lifetime License.

(iii) We allow hunting and hunter access by boat only. We prohibit hunting from land. Retrieval dogs may retrieve fallen game on shore.

(iv) We allow hunting on the refuge from September 1 until February 28. Hunting will follow State seasons during that period.

(v) Hunters may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.

(vi) We prohibit the possession or use of lead ammunition while hunting.

(2)-(4) [Reserved]
