
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.66 Washington.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of deer and elk on designated areas of the monument/refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow sport hunting of deer and elk on the Saddle Mountain, Ringold, and Wahluke (East) units of the monument/refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section applies.

(B) We allow hunting with shotgun, muzzleloader, and archery only.

(ii) We allow population control hunting of elk on the Rattlesnake Unit of the monument/refuge subject to the following conditions:

(A) We prohibit overnight camping, overnight parking, and smoking.

(B) We require elk population control hunters to participate in a Service-directed, hunt-specific training session each year prior to hunting. Hunters must check-in and out at a refuge check station and fill out and display the Self-Clearing check-In Permit (Form 3-2405) on the dashboards of their vehicles.

(C) We allow hunting with modern firearms only.

(D) We allow authorized vehicles only on designated roads and only in designated parking areas.

(E) We prohibit the use of bicycles and carts.

(F) We allow hunting Monday through Friday only.

(G) All hunt assistants must check-in and out at a refuge check station and be under the supervision of the permitted hunter at all times. All hunt assistants must fill out and display the Self-Clearing check-In Permit (Form 3-2405) on the dashboards of their vehicles.

(H) We allow foot access only beyond designated roads and parking areas.

(I) We prohibit retrieval of animals outside the hunt area without prior Service approval.
