
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.66 Washington.
####### McNary National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(h)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, dove, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit discharge of any firearm withinmile (396 meters) of any maintained building or Federal facility, such as, but not limited to, a structure designed for storage, human occupancy, or shelter for animals.

(ii) Hunters must remove all decoys and other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iii) On the McNary Fee Hunt Area (McNary Headquarters Unit), we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) The McNary Fee Hunt Area (McNary Headquarters Unit) is only open on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Thanksgiving Day, and New Year's Day.

(B) We require hunters to possess and carry a special refuge permit (signed refuge brochure).

(C) We allow hunting only from assigned areas.

(iv) On the Peninsula Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following condition: On the east shoreline of the Peninsula Unit, we allow hunting only from established numbered blind sites, assigned on a first-come, first-served basis, and we require hunters to remain within 100 feet (30 meters) of marked posts unless retrieving birds or setting decoys.
