
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.66 Washington.
####### Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(i)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You may not shoot or discharge any firearm from, across, or along any designated route of travel, including pedestrian trails.

(ii) We close the refuge to goose hunting when the dusky Canada goose harvest reaches the quota posted at the refuge.

(iii) We allow hunting on designated portions of the River "S" Unit on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, excluding Federal holidays, during the regular State waterfowl hunting season.

(iv) Prior to entering the hunt area, you must check in at the refuge check station, and obtain a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542). You must carry the Harvest Report while hunting as proof of blind assignment and user fee payment.

(v) We allow access to the refuge check station 2 hours before legal shooting time. We require hunters to depart the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal shooting time.

(vi) We allow hunting only from designated permanent blinds.

(vii) We allow a maximum of three persons per hunting blind.

(viii) We prohibit additional hunters to join a hunt party after the party has checked in.

(ix) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(x) Prior to switching blinds, you must first report to the refuge check station to obtain a new blind assignment. You must submit an accurate Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) for the blind being vacated, and obtain a new Harvest Report for the new blind.

(xi) Prior to leaving the hunt area, you must check out at the refuge check station, submit an accurate Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542), and present all harvested birds for inspection by check station personnel.

(xii) We reserve Blind 1A for exclusive use by hunters with permanent disabilities who qualify for a valid State Disabled Hunter Permit or America the Beautiful access pass, and their nonhunting assistants.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]
