
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.66 Washington.
####### Toppenish National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(k)-(1)We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, dove, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We prohibit discharge of any firearm withinmile (396 meters (m)) of any maintained building or Federal facility, such as, but not limited to, a structure designed for storage, human occupancy, or shelter for animals.

(ii) We allow only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of nonliving natural materials. Hunters must remove all decoys and other equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see ยง 27.93 of this chapter).

(iii) On the Pumphouse, Petty, Isiri, Chamber, and Chloe Units, we allow hunting 7 days a week subject to the following condition: We require a minimum distance between hunt parties of 200 yards (180 m).

(iv) On the Halvorson and Webb Units, we allow hunting only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day.

(v) On the Robbins Road Unit, we allow hunting only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day.

(vi) On the Robbins Road and Pumphouse Units, we allow hunting only from numbered field blind sites. We prohibit free-roam hunting or jump shooting, and you must remain within 100 feet (30 m) of the numbered field blind post unless retrieving birds or setting decoys. We allow a maximum of four persons per blind site.
