
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.66 Washington.
####### Turnbull National Wildlife Refuge,Migratory game bird hunting.

(l)-(1)We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow hunting during the State youth season in September.

(ii) We allow hunting from the beginning of the regular waterfowl seasons through November 30 by youths (younger than age 16) on Saturday and Sunday only. An adult, age 18 or older, must accompany and supervise youth hunters. We allow the supervising adult(s) to hunt.

(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.

(iv) Hunters may access the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal hunting hours and must leave no later than 1 hour after legal hunting hours.

(v) Hunters may hunt only from within 50 yards of posted hunting sites.

(vi) Hunting parties are restricted to a maximum of two youths and two accompanying adults per hunting site.

(vii) We allow the use of nonmotorized boats for hunting.

(viii) We only allow the use of portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of manmade materials.

(ix) Hunters must remove all blinds, decoys, and other personal equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(x) We allow migratory game bird hunting with shotguns only.

(2) [Reserved]
