
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 32.68 Wisconsin.
####### Upland game hunting.

(2)We allow hunting of wild turkey, ring-necked pheasant, gray partridge, ruffed grouse, squirrel, cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, raccoon, opossum, striped skunk, red fox, gray fox, coyote, and bobcat on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) For hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells while in the field, including shot shells used for hunting wild turkey (see ยง 32.2(k)).

(ii) We prohibit night hunting of upland game from 30 minutes after legal sunset until 30 minutes before legal sunrise the following day.

(iii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting upland game (except raccoon, opossum, striped skunk, red fox, gray fox, coyote, and bobcat), provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.

(iv) Coyote, red fox, gray fox, and bobcat hunting begins on the first day of the traditional 9-day gun deer season.

(v) Coyote hunting ends on the last day of the season for fox.

(vi) You may only hunt striped skunk and opossum during the season for raccoon.

(vii) You may only hunt snowshoe hare during the season for cottontail rabbit.

(viii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal shooting hours and must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal shooting hours.
