
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 32 - HUNTING AND FISHING
##### Subpart B - Refuge-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### § 32.68 Wisconsin.
####### Big game hunting.

(3)We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (iv) of this section apply.

(ii) You may use portable elevated devices, but you must lower them to ground level at the close of shooting hours each day. You must remove all blinds, stands, platforms, and ladders from the refuge at the end of the hunting season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(iii) You must clearly mark all non-natural blinds, stands, platforms, and ladders on the exterior with the hunter's Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources customer identification number.

(iv) We open Refuge Area 2 to deer hunting during the State archery, gun, and muzzleloader seasons, except that we close Refuge Area 2 to deer hunting during any early State antlerless-only hunts.

(v) We open Refuge Area 3 to deer hunting during the State regular gun, muzzleloader, and late archery seasons. Unarmed deer hunters may enter Refuge Area 3 to scout beginning the Saturday prior to the gun deer season.

(vi) You must remove flagging used during hunting by the close of the archery deer season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).

(vii) Any ground blind used during any gun deer season must display at least 144 square inches (929 square centimeters) of solid-blaze-orange or fluorescent pink material visible from all directions.
