
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.32 Permits - general.
####### Application requirements for permits for the enhancement of survival through Candidate Conservation Agreements with Assurances (CCAAs).

(d)(1)The applicant must submit an application for a permit under this paragraph (d) to the appropriate Regional Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, for the Region where the applicant resides or where the proposed activity is to occur (for appropriate addresses, see 50 CFR 10.22). When a species covered by a CCAA is listed as threatened and the applicant wishes to engage in activities identified in the Agreement and otherwise prohibited by ยง 17.31, the applicant must apply for an enhancement of survival permit for species covered by the Agreement. The permit will become valid if and when covered proposed, candidate or other unlisted species is listed as a threatened species. The applicant must submit an official Service application form (3-200.54) that includes the following information:

(i) The common and scientific names of the species for which the applicant requests incidental take authorization;

(ii) A description of the land use or water management activity for which the applicant requests incidental take authorization; and

(iii) A CCAA that complies with the requirements of the Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances policy available from the Service.

(iv) The Director must publish notice in theof each application for a permit that is made under this paragraph (d). Each notice must invite the submission from interested parties within 30 days after the date of the notice of written data, views, or arguments with respect to the application. The procedures included in ยง 17.22(e) for permit objection apply to any notice published by the Director under this paragraph (d).
