
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart D - Other Refuge Uses
###### ยง 36.33 What do I need to know about using cabins and related structures on Alaska National Wildlife Refuges?
####### All cabins.

(b)The regulations in this paragraph (b) shall apply to all cabins, claimants, occupants, and guests. The regulations in this paragraph (b) do not apply to temporary facilities: any structure or man-made improvement which can readily be completely dismantled and removed from the site when the period of authorized use is terminated.

(1) A special use permit is required to construct, use and/or occupy a cabin on Fish and Wildlife Service lands within the refuge. The permit may also authorize the use of related structures and other necessary appurtenances.

(2) After adequate public notice has been given, unclaimed cabins become the property of the Federal Government. Adequate public notice shall include: Posting notices of trespass on unclaimed cabins; publication of notices of trespass in Anchorage and Fairbanks newspapers and in at least one local newspaper if available; and posting notices of trespass at appropriate community post offices. A Government-owned cabin may be used for refuge administration, used for emergency purposes by the public, permitted to another applicant, designated a public use cabin, or destroyed. Disposal of excess cabins and structures will be according to regulations pursuant to title 41, chapter 114 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

(3) Willful noncompliance with the conditions and stipulations of a special use permit shall be considered grounds to invoke the administrative process leading to notice and hearing, and possible revocation of the permit. The refuge manager will attempt to resolve problems of noncompliance with the permittee as soon as possible after the situation becomes known. If this effort fails, the refuge manager shall provide written notice to the permittee within 30 days of that date, informing the permittee of noncompliance, giving specific instructions for compliance and providing appropriate time for the permittee to comply.

(4) No special use permit will be issued for the construction of a cabin for private recreational use or for the private recreational use of an existing cabin.

(5) Guests are allowed to occupy a cabin only during the activity period identified on the special use permit. Guests occupying a cabin during the absence of the permittee shall obtain a letter of authorization from the permittee. The guest must have a copy of the letter in his/her possession. In commercial cabins, the permittee or another person listed on the permit must be present when the cabin is occupied by guests or clients.

(6) A person whose permit application (new or renewal) for a cabin has been denied or whose cabin permit has been revoked by the refuge manager may appeal to the Regional Director as described in ยง 36.41(b).
