
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart D - Other Refuge Uses
###### ยง 36.33 What do I need to know about using cabins and related structures on Alaska National Wildlife Refuges?
####### Commercial cabins.

(e)In addition to paragraph (b) of this section, the regulations in this paragraph (e) shall apply to all commercial cabins, permittees, clients, guests, and occupants.

(1) A special use permit is required for all cabins used for commercial purposes. Refuge managers may also issue special use permits that authorize additional commercial use of an existing cabin used for guiding, etc. The use of a new cabin shall be limited to the type of use specified in the original permit. The refuge manager may permit the use of an existing cabin on non-wilderness refuge lands for the exercise of valid commercial fishing rights. Such a permit may be denied if, after conducting a public hearing in the affected locality, it is found that the use is inconsistent with refuge purposes and is a significant expansion of commercial fishing activities within the unit beyond 1979 levels.

(2) When the commercial fishing or guiding rights associated with a permittee's existing cabin are acquired by a new party, the privilege of using the cabin cannot be sold and the new party does not necessarily qualify for a cabin permit. He/she must apply for a permit and meet the criteria described in this paragraph (e) before issuance of a special use permit by the refuge manager. He/she may not occupy the cabin before issuance of a permit.

(3) No new commercial cabins will be permitted in wilderness areas.

(4) Commercial cabins may be occupied only by persons legitimately involved in the commercial enterprise, assistants, employees, their families, guests and clients and only during the time that the authorized activity is occurring. The names of those individuals, excluding guests and clients, will be listed on the permit. The permittee or another individual listed on the permit must be present when the cabin is occupied.

(5) Special use permits for commercial cabins may be renewed annually in conjunction with the special use permit renewal for the commercial activity itself. The cabin permit may be issued for periods of up to five years and is a separate permit from one issued for the commercial activity.
