
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart D - Other Refuge Uses
###### ยง 36.33 What do I need to know about using cabins and related structures on Alaska National Wildlife Refuges?
####### Administrative and government-owned public use cabins.

(f)In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, the regulations in this paragraph (f) apply to all administrative and government-owned cabins.

(1) The refuge manager can designate those cabins not under permit as administrative cabins to be used for official government business. Administrative cabins may be used by the public during life-threatening emergencies. On a case-by-case basis, they may also be designated as public use cabins when not needed for government purposes. In such cases, the refuge manager must inform the public and post dates or seasons when the cabins are available.

(2) The refuge manager may designate government-owned cabins as public use cabins. They are only intended for short-term public recreational use and occupancy. The refuge manager may develop an allocation system for managing public use cabins for short-term recreational use. No existing public use cabins shall be removed or new public use cabins constructed within wilderness areas designated by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 or subsequently designated wilderness areas until the Secretary of the Interior notifies the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
