
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart D - Other Refuge Uses
###### ยง 36.37 Revenue producing visitor services.
####### Preference to Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated (CIRI).

(e)(1) Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, in cooperation with village corporations within Cook Inlet Region when appropriate, shall have a right of first refusal to provide new visitor services within that portion of the Kenai National Moose Range (Kenai National Wildlife Refuge) within the boundaries of Cook Inlet Region. The CIRI shall have ninety (90) days from receipt of a prospectus in which to exercise its right.

(2) In order to exercise this right of first refusal, CIRI must submit an offer responsive to the terms of a visitor services solicitation. If CIRI makes such an offer and is determined by the Refuge Manager to be capable of carrying out the terms of the special use permit, it shall be awarded the permit. If it does not, the permit may be awarded to another person pursuant to a showing that such other person can carry out the conditions of the special use permit in a manner compatible with the purposes of the refuge. An offer being made by CIRI under this section must document controlling interest by CIRI when made in cooperation with village corporations within the Cook Inlet Region. The CIRI right of first refusal shall have precedence over the rights of preferred operators.

(3) The right of first refusal described in this section may not be sold, transferred, devised, or assigned, directly or indirectly.
