
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart E - Refuge Specific Regulations
###### ยง 36.39 Public use.
####### Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex.

(c)(1) The Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge (Complex) includes the Becharof National Wildlife Refuge, the Chignik and Ugashik Units of the Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge and the Seal Cape Area of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.

(2) Off-road vehicles are permitted on the refuge complex under ยง 36.12(a),ยง 36.39(c)(2)(ii) or ยง 36.39(c)(2)(iii) and must meet the following conditions:

(i) Vehicles are limited to three or four-wheeled vehicles with a maximum gross weight of 650 pounds as listed by the manufacturer.

(ii) ORV's are permitted on the following trails only: Yantarni Bay Airstrip; Yantarni Bay Airstrip to beach trail; and Yantarni Bay Airstrip to oil well site trail. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager.

(iii) Subject to the weight and size restrictions listed in (i) above, subsistence use of off-road vehicles, as authorized by 50 CFR 36.12(a) is allowed throughout the Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex.

(3) Camping is permitted on the Refuge Complex subject to the following restrictions:

(i) These camping limits do not apply to subsistence users except at Big Creek where they apply to all refuge complex users.

(ii) No permanent improvements may be made to campsites without a special use permit. All materials brought on to the refuge complex must be removed upon cessation of camping unless authorized by a special use permit.

(iii) Other than reserved sites authorized by special use permits, camping at one location is limited to seven consecutive nights from August 1 through November 15 withinmile of the following waters: Becharof Lake in the Severson Peninsula area (Island Arm); Becharof Lake Outlet; Ugashik Narrows; Big Creek; Gertrude Lake; and Gertrude Creek between Gertrude Lake and the King Salmon River. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager.

(iv) Tent camps must be moved a minimum of one mile following each seven-night camping stay during the periods specified above.

(4) Temporary facilities may be authorized on the Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex by special use permit only, subject to the following conditions:

(i) Except for administrative or subsistence purposes, new temporary facilities are prohibited withinmile of the Becharof Lake shoreline.

(ii) Except for administrative purposes, new temporary facilities are prohibited in the following areas: withinmile of the shorelines of Gertrude Lake and Long Lake; withinmile of the airstrip on the south side of the King Salmon River approximatelymile above the confluence of Gertrude Creek and the King Salmon River; withinmile of the shoreline of Upper and Lower Ugashik Lakes; withinmile of the shoreline of Becharof Lake outlet; and withinmile of the shoreline of Big Creek. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager.
