
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart F - Permits and Public Participation and Closure Procedures
###### ยง 36.41 Permits.
####### Application.

(d)(1) This section and other regulations in this part 36, generally applicable to the National Wildlife Refuge System, require that permits be obtained from the refuge manager. For activities on the following refuges, request permits from the respective refuge manager in the following locations:

(2) For noncompetitively issued permits, the applicant may present the application verbally if he/she is unable to prepare a written application. The refuge manager will keep a written record of such verbal application. For competitively issued permits, the applicant must submit a written application in the format delineated in the prospectus or other designated format of the Service.

(3) The refuge manager will grant or deny applications for noncompetitively issued permits in writing within 45 days, except for good cause. For competitively issued permits, the refuge manager will grant or deny applications in accordance with the time frame established in the prospectus, except for good cause.

(4) Refuge managers may establish application period deadlines for individual refuges for both competitively and noncompetitively issued permits. The refuge manager will send notification of availability for commercial opportunities and application deadlines to existing and/or the previous year's permittees. He/she will publish the notice in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the State and in at least one local newspaper if available, and will make available for broadcast on local radio stations in a manner reasonably calculated to inform local prospective applicants.

(5) The Service may limit the number of applications that an individual may submit for competitively awarded offerings.
