
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart F - Permits and Public Participation and Closure Procedures
###### ยง 36.41 Permits.
####### Competitively awarded permits.

(e)(1) Where the number of available permits is limited, refuge managers will award permits competitively. A prospectus with invitation to bid system will be the primary competitive method used for selecting commercial visitor services. Where justified, other selection methods, including but not limited to lotteries, may be used. Such circumstances may include, but not be limited to, the timely refilling of use areas that have become vacant during regularly scheduled terms to prevent commercial visitor service opportunities from going unused, and initiating trial programs on individual refuges. The refuge manager has discretionary authority to issue noncompetitive permits on a one-time, short-term basis to accredited educational institutions and other nonprofit organizations to conduct primarily environmental education-related activities that also may be recreational in nature in use areas where permits for that type of guided recreational activity are otherwise limited to competitive award.

(2) Where numbers of permits have been limited for an activity prior to the promulgation of these regulations and a prospectus with invitation to bid system has not yet been developed, refuge managers may issue noncompetitive five-year permits consistent with the terms set forth in paragraph (e)(16) of this section on a one-time basis to existing permittees.

(3) The Service will publish notice of all solicitations for competition in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section and include reasonable application periods of not less than 60 days. When competitively selecting permittees for an activity in a use area where permits for that activity were not previously competitively awarded, the Service will publish notice of the upcoming opportunity a minimum of 18 months prior to the effective date of the permit term.

(4) All prospectuses will identify the selection criteria that the Service will use to evaluate the proposals. All prospectuses involving commercial visitor services must include experience and performance in providing the same or similar services as a criterion. In evaluating the experience of an applicant, the Service will specifically consider knowledge of the specific area covered by the prospectus and the nature of the technical skills required to provide quality service to the public.

(5) A panel of Service employees who use a scoring process based on the selection criteria will evaluate and rank applications received in response to a prospectus.

(6) The Service has discretionary authority to not evaluate or consider proposals that are incomplete or improperly submitted.

(7) The Service may establish minimum scores to qualify for the award of permits. If established, these minimum scores will be identified in the prospectus.

(8) The Service may establish limits on the number of use areas within an individual refuge, or on refuges statewide, in which a permittee is authorized to operate. This limit applies to different corporations in which the same individual has any ownership interests.

(9) When vacancies occur in competitively filled use areas, the procedure for reissuing the permits will depend on how long it has been since the permit originally was issued. The Service will award the permit to the next highest ranking interested applicant in the original solicitation, if a vacancy occurs within the first 12 months of the permit's effective date. Resolicited competition for the area will occur as soon as practicable if:

(i) A vacancy occurs after 12 months of the permit's effective date; and

(ii) At least 24 months of the original permit term is available for a new permittee after completion of the solicitation, application, evaluation and awards period. If less than 24 months of the term of the permit is available, the Service has the discretion to solicit competition during the regularly scheduled solicitation period. The Service may annually issue noncompetitive permits for vacant areas, where there has not been significant permittee interest, until competition can be solicited in conjunction with other solicitations for vacant areas.

(10) Terms of permits awarded under the prospectus with invitation method are valid for 5 years except in those instances where the Service issues permits to fill vacancies occurring during a scheduled award cycle. In these instances, the permit duration is limited to the expiration date of the original award period. Permits awarded under the prospectus by invitation method must be renewed noncompetitively by the refuge manager for a period of 5 additional years upon application and a showing of permittee compliance with all applicable permit terms and conditions and a satisfactory record of performance. After one renewal, the Service shall not extend or noncompetitively renew another permit.

(11) Permit privileges may be transferred to other qualified entities that demonstrate the ability to meet Service standards, as outlined in the prospectus upon which the existing permit was based, subject to approval by the refuge manager. Requests for transfers must be made in writing to the refuge manager. A permittee who transfers his/her privileges will not be eligible to be considered for competitively awarded permits for the same type of activity on the same national wildlife refuge for a period of three years following the authorized transfer. The Service retains complete discretion in allowing transfers. In general, the Service approves transfers only upon demonstrating that it is to the government's benefit and if all the following criteria are satisfied:

(i) The transfer is part of the sale or disposition of the current permittee's entire business as earlier defined;

(ii) The current permittee was either conducting the commercial operation in the refuge under authorization of a permit for a minimum of 12 years or owns significant real property in the area, the value of which is dependent on holding a refuge permit. Consideration of the last element will include, but is not limited to:

(A) The relationship of the real property to permitted refuge activities as documented in the operations plan;

(B) The percentage that the authorized refuge activities comprise of the total commercial use associated with the real property; and

(C) The appraised value of the real property.

(iii) The transferee must be independently qualified to hold the permit under the standards of the prospectus of the original existing permit.

(iv) The transferee has an acceptable history of compliance with State and Federal fish and wildlife and related permit regulations during the past 5 years. An individual with any felony conviction is an ineligible transferee. Transfer approval to an individual having any violations, convictions, or pleas of nolo contendere for fish and wildlife related federal misdemeanors or State violations will be discretionary. Denial is based on, but not limited to, whether the individual committed any violation in which the case disposition resulted in any of the following:

(A) Any jail time served or probation;

(B) Any criminal fine of $250 or greater;

(C) Forfeiture of equipment or harvested animal (or parts thereof) valued at $250 or greater;

(D) Suspension of privileges or revocation of any fish and wildlife related license/permits;

(E) Other alternative sentencing that indicates the penalty is of equal severity to the foregoing elements; or

(F) Any multiple convictions or pleas of nolo contendere for fish and wildlife-related Federal misdemeanors or State fish and wildlife-related violations or misdemeanors irrespective of the amount of the fine.

(12) The transferee must follow the operations plan of the original permittee. The transferee may modify the operations plan with the written consent of the refuge manager as long as the change does not result in increased adverse impacts to refuge resources or other refuge users.

(13) Upon timely approval of the transfer, the Service will issue the new permittee a permit for the remaining portion of the original permit term. The refuge manager retains the right to restrict, suspend, revoke, or not renew the permit for failure to comply with its terms and conditions.

(14) Permit privileges issued under this paragraph (e) may be transferred, subject to refuge manager approval, to a former spouse when a court awards permit-associated business assets in a divorce settlement agreement to that person. The recipient must independently qualify to hold the originally issued permit under the minimum standards identified by the Service, and the permittee must have an acceptable history of compliance as set forth in paragraph (e)(11)(iv) of this section.

(15) Permit privileges issued under this paragraph (e) may be transferred in the case of death or disability of the permittee, subject to refuge manager approval, as provided in this paragraph (e). In these cases, the permit privileges may pass to a spouse who can demonstrate he/she is capable of providing the authorized services and who has an acceptable history of compliance as set forth in paragraph (e)(11)(iv) of this section. A spouse who lacks any required license(s) but otherwise qualifies may hire an employee, who holds the required license(s) and who has an acceptable history of compliance as set forth in paragraph (e)(11)(iv) of this section, to assist in the operation. Permit privileges may also pass to another member of the immediate family or a person who was a business partner at the time of original permit issuance. This person must be independently qualified under the minimum standards identified by the Service at the time of original permit issuance and have an acceptable history of compliance as set forth in paragraph (e)(11)(iv) of this section.

(16) Upon September 26, 1997, refuge managers will amend existing competitively-awarded permits through the prospectus method to make the terms fully consistent with this section, including eligibility for a 5-year non-competitive renewal.
