
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 36 - ALASKA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGES
##### Subpart F - Permits and Public Participation and Closure Procedures
###### ยง 36.41 Permits.
####### Appeals.

(i)(1) Any person adversely affected by a refuge manager's decision or order relating to the person's permit, or application for a permit, has the right to have the decision or order reviewed by the regional director. This section does not apply to permits or applications for rights-of-way. See 50 CFR 29.22 for the hearing and appeals procedure on rights-of-way.

(2) Prior to making any adverse decision or order on any permit or an application for a noncompetitively issued permit, the refuge manager will notify the permittee or applicant, verbally or in writing, of the proposed action and its effective date. A permittee or applicant of noncompetitively issued permits, shall have 45 calendar days after notification in which to present to the refuge manager, orally or in writing, a statement in opposition to the proposed action or effective date. Notification in writing to a valid permit holder shall occur within 10 calendar days after receipt of the statement in opposition to the refuge manager's final decision or order. An applicant for a noncompetitively issued permit shall be notified in writing within 30 calendar days after receipt of the statement in opposition, of the refuge manager's final decision or order. An applicant for a competitively issued permit who is not selected will not receive advance notice of the award decision. Such applicants, who wish to appeal the decision must appeal directly to the regional director within the time period provided for in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(3) The permittee or applicant shall have 45 calendar days from the postmarked date of the refuge manager's final decision or order in which to file a written appeal to the regional director. In appeals involving applicants who were not selected during a competitive selection process, the selected applicant concurrently will have the opportunity to provide information to the regional director prior to the final decision. Selected applicants who choose to take advantage of this opportunity, will retain their right of appeal should the appeal of the unsuccessful applicant result in reversal or revision of the original decision. For purposes of reconsideration, appellants shall present the following information:

(i) Any statement or documentation, in addition to that included in the initial application, permit or competitive prospectus, which demonstrates that the appellant satisfies the criteria set forth in the document under which the permit application/award was made;

(ii) The basis for the permit applicant's disagreement with the decision or order being appealed; and

(iii) Whether or not the permit applicant requests an informal hearing before the regional director.

(4) The regional director will provide a hearing if requested by the applicant. After consideration of the written materials and oral hearing, and within a reasonable time, the regional director shall affirm, reverse, or modify the refuge manager's decision or order and shall set forth in writing the basis for the decision. The applicant must be sent a copy of the decision promptly. The decision will constitute final agency action.

(5) Permittee compliance with any decision or order of a refuge manager shall be required during the appeal process unless the regional director makes a preliminary finding contrary to the refuge manager's decision, and prepares a written determination that such action is not detrimental to the interests of the United States, or upon submission and acceptance of a bond deemed adequate by the refuge manager to indemnify the United States from loss or damage.
