
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 37.1 Purpose.

These regulations implement the requirement of section 1002(d) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, 94 Stat. 2450, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 3142(d), that the Secretary establish guidelines governing surface geological and geophysical exploration for oil and gas within the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Section 1002 mandates an oil and gas exploration program for the refuge's coastal plain. The program shall culminate in a report to Congress which contains, among other things, the identification of those areas within the coastal plain that have oil and gas production potential, an estimate of the volume of oil and gas concerned, the description of the wildlife, its habitat, and other resources that are within the areas identified, and an evaluation of the adverse effects that the carrying out of further exploration for, and the development and production of, oil and gas within such areas will have on the refuge's resources. It is the objective of this program to ascertain the best possible data and information concerning the probable existence, location, volume, and potential for further exploration, development, and production of oil and gas within the coastal plain without significantly adversely affecting the wildlife, its habitat, or the environment and without unnecessary duplication of exploratory activities. These regulations prescribe the requirements and procedures for obtaining authorization for and the conduct of such exploratory activities, and for submitting to the Department the resulting data and information. These regulations also describe other matters relating to the administration of the program.
