
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 37.12 Responsibilities of permittee.

(a) The permittee shall comply and shall be responsible for the compliance of its officials, employees, contractors, subcontractors and agents with the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of its special use permit, the provisions of its approved exploration plan and plan or operation, and all reasonable stipulations, demands and orders issued by the Regional Director. All actions by the permittee inconsistent with this part are prohibited.

(b) The permittee shall designate a general representative who shall be the person primarily accountable for managing the permittee's authorized activities, and a field representative who shall be the person primarily accountable for supervising the permittee's field operations, and their alternates. The Regional Director shall be informed of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the persons designated pursuant to this paragraph and of the procedures for contacting them on a 24-hour basis, including the radio frequency for field operations, at the time the permittee submits its first plan of operation pursuant to ยง 37.24. The permittee shall notify the Regional Director promptly of any changes in such personnel or the procedures for contacting them.

(c) Field operations shall be conducted by the permittee or a designee approved by the Regional Director. Assignment of a designee shall be in a manner and form acceptable to the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall approve or disapprove a permittee's designee within 30 days following the receipt of such information as the Regional Director may require from the permittee and designee in order to reach his decision. Acceptance of a designee to act for the permittee in matters relating to the conduct of exploratory activities does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with applicable laws, its special use permit, exploration plan, plan of operation, and all reasonable stipulations, demands and orders of the Regional Director. The designee will be considered the agent of the permittee and will be responsible for complying fully with the obligations of the permittee. The serving of stipulations, demands, orders, and notices on the permittee's designee, when delivered personally or by radio or mail, will be deemed to be service upon the permittee. The permittee shall notify the Regional Director in writing when assignment of a designee has been cancelled. A designee cannot reassign its designation to another party. The permittee or designee shall notify the Regional Director 10 working days in advance of its intention to commence field operations for each season that it conducts exploratory activities.

(d) The permittee shall submit to the Regional Director 30 days prior to the commencement of field operations for each year covered by its exploration plan an updated list of the names and addresses of all persons participating in the exploratory activities covered thereby or sharing in the data and information resulting therefrom through a cost-sharing or any other arrangement.

(e) The permittee shall perform operations and maintain equipment in a safe and workmanlike manner. The permittee shall take all reasonable precautions necessary to provide adequate protection for the health and safety of life and the protection of property and to comply with any health and safety requirements prescribed by the Regional Director.
