
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart C - Exploration Plans
###### ยง 37.25 Revision.

(a) A permittee may request the Regional Director for permission to revise its approved exploration plan. Until the Regional Director grants the permittee's request, no revision of its exploration plan shall be implemented. Such request shall be deemed to be granted on the 10th working day following its receipt unless the Regional Director denies the request; advises the permittee that the proposed revision is major and, therefore, must satisfy the publication and hearing requirements of ยง 37.22(b) before it can be acted upon; by timely written notice extends the period for considering the request; conditionally approves the proposed revision with such modifications as he stipulates are necessary and appropriate; or, unconditionally approves the proposed revision within a shorter period. No revision of an exploration plan shall be approved that is inconsistent with the Act or this part. Approval of any revision is subject to the conditions stated in ยง 37.22(d) to the extent that they are pertinent.

(b) Upon 10 working days advance notice to the Regional Director of its proposed revision, or within such lesser period as may be concurred in by the Regional Director, a permittee may implement a revision of its plan of operation, provided that such revision is consistent with the exploration plan to which the plan of operation pertains and this part. The Regional Director may require the permittee to defer, modify, or rescind such revision whenever he determines that such action is necessary and appropriate to ensure such consistency.

(c) Reconsideration of the Regional Director's actions under this section may be obtained by employing the procedures described in ยง 37.22(c). A request for reconsideration shall not operate to stay the Regional Director's actions unless such stay is granted in writing by the Director.
