
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Environmental Protection
###### ยง 37.32 Special areas.
####### Snow goose staging special areas.

(d)Whenever he deems it necessary or appropriate to ensure that exploratory activities do not significantly adversely affect staging snow geese, the Regional Director shall designate within the general area bordered on the east by the Aichilik River, on the north by the mainland coastline, on the west by the Hulahula River, and on the south by the southern boundary of the coastal plain, specific snow goose staging special areas which shall be closed to all exploratory activities during such periods between August 20 and September 10 of each year as those areas are determined by the Regional Director to be used for snow goose staging. No exploratory activities shall be conducted in such designated areas during such periods.

(e) In addition, the Regional Director may designate specific areas within the coastal plain that are important for other wildlife or that encompass lands the surface estate in which is owned by holders of approved native allotments or the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation as special areas in which exploratory activities may be prohibited, conditioned or otherwise restricted in such manner and for such period as prescribed by the Regional Director to avoid significant adverse effects from exploratory activities.

(f) The Regional Director shall notify the permittee of the locations of designated special areas and of the applicable limitations on its exploratory activities as far in advance of the effective dates of such limitations as is possible. The Regional Director may modify or remove such designations and limitations whenever he determines that they are no longer necessary to protect the resources or values of such special areas from significant adverse effects.

(g) No exploratory activities shall be conducted by any permittee at any time withinmile of the source of the Sadleochit Spring or withinmile on either side of Sadlerochit Spring Creek for a distance of 5 miles downstream from its source.
