
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart E - General Administration
###### ยง 37.47 Civil penalties.
####### Notice of violation.

(b)(1) The notice of violation shall be issued by the Solicitor and served personally or by registered mail upon the person named in the notice (hereinafter the respondent) or his authorized representative. The notice shall contain:

(i) A summary of the facts believed to show a violation by the respondent;

(ii) A specific reference to the provision, term, condition or prohibition allegedly violated; and

(iii) The amount of the penalty proposed to be assessed. The notice may also contain an initial proposal for compromise or settlement of the action.

(2) The notice of violation shall also advise respondent of his right to:

(i) Respond to the notice within 45 calendar days from the date of its issuance by: (A) Undertaking informal discussions with the Solicitor; (B) Accepting the proposed penalty or the compromise, if any, offered in the notice; or (C) Filing a petition for relief in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; or

(ii) Take no action and await the Solicitor's notice of assessment. Such response must be received by the Solicitor on or before the 45th day during normal business hours at the address stated in the notice.

(3) Any notice of violation may be amended, but any nontechnical amendment will extend the running of the respondent's 45 day period for response from the date of the notice to the date of the amendment.

(4) Acceptance of the proposed penalty or the compromise, if any, stated in the notice of violation shall be deemed to be a waiver of the notice of assessment required in paragraph (d) of this section and of the respondent's right to an opportunity for a hearing described in paragraph (e) of this section.
