
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Subpart E - General Administration
###### ยง 37.47 Civil penalties.
####### Hearing.

(g)(1) Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the Hearings Division will assign an administrative law judge who shall have all the powers accorded by law and necessary to preside over the parties and the hearing and to make decisions in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554 through 557. Notice of such assignment shall be given promptly to the respondent and to the Solicitor at the address stated in the notice of assessment. Upon notice of the assignment of an administrative law judge to the case, the Solicitor shall file all correspondence and petitions exchanged between the Solicitor and the respondent which shall become a part of the hearing record.

(2) The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554 through 557 and with 43 CFR part 4 to the extent that it is not inconsistent with this part. Subject to 43 CFR 1.3, the respondent may appear in person, by representative, or by counsel. The hearing shall be held in a location established by the administrative law judge, giving due regard to the convenience of the parties, their representatives and witnesses. Failure to appear at the time set for hearing shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing and consent to the decision on the record made at the hearing. The judge shall render a written decision on the record, which shall set forth his findings of facts and conclusions of law and the reasons therefore, and an assessment of a civil penalty if he determines that the respondent committed the violation charged.

(3) Discovery shall be obtained by employing the procedures described 43 CFR 4.1130 through 4.1141. In addition, discovery of facts known and opinions held by experts, otherwise discoverable under 43 CFR 4.1132(a) and acquired and developed in anticipation of administrative adjudication or litigation, may be obtained only as follows:

(i)(A) A party through interrogatories require any other party to identify each person whom the other party expects to call as an expert witness, to state the subject matter on which the expert is expected to testify, and to state the substance of the facts and opinions to which the expert is expected to testify and a summary of the grounds for each opinion.

(B) Upon motion, the administrative law judge may order further discovery by other means, subject to such restrictions as to scope and such provisions under paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section concerning fees and expenses, as the administrative law judge may deem appropriate.

(ii) A party may discover facts known or opinions held by an expert, who has been retained or employed by another party in anticipation of administrative adjudication or litigation or preparation therefore and who is not expected to be called as a witness, only upon a showing of exceptional circumstances under which it is impracticable for the party seeking discovery to obtain facts or opinions on the same subject by other means.

(iii) Unless manifest injustice would result, (A) the administrative law judge shall require the party seeking discovery to pay the expert, or the Department if the expert is an employee of the United States, a reasonable fee for time spent in responding to paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(B) and (g)(3)(ii) of this section; and (B) with respect to discovery under paragraph (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section the administrative law judge may require and with respect to discovery under paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section the administrative law judge shall require, the party seeking discovery to pay the other party a fair portion of the fees and expenses reasonably incurred by the latter party in obtaining facts and opinions from the expert.

(4) Unless the notice of appeal is filed in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, the administrative law judge's decision shall constitute the final administrative decision of the Secretary in the matter and shall become effective 30 calendar days from the date of the decision.
