
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 37 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATION OF THE COASTAL PLAIN, ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ALASKA
##### Appendix I to Part 37 - Legal Description of the Coastal Plain, Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska

Beginning at the meander corner of section 35 on the First Standard Parallel North on the line of mean high water on the left bank of the Canning River, T. 5 N., R. 23 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence easterly, along the First Standard Parallel North, approximately 40miles to the closing corner of T. 4 N., Rs. 30 and 31 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between Rs. 30 and 31 E., approximately 6 miles to the corner of Tps. 3 and 4 N., Rs. 33 and 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence easterly, between Tps. 3 and 4 N., approximately 18 miles to the corner of Tps. 3 and 4 N., Rs. 33 and 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between Rs. 33 and 34 E., approximately 6 miles to the corner of Tps. 2 and 3 N., Rs. 33 and 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence easterly, between Tps. 2 and 3 N., approximately 21 miles to the meander corner of sections 4 and 33, on the line of mean high water on the left bank of the Aichilik River, Tps. 2 and 3 N., R. 37 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence northeasterly, along the line of mean high water on the left bank of the Aichilik River, approximately 32 miles to a point at the line of mean high tide of the Beaufort Lagoon, located in section 28, T. 6 N., R. 40 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence on an approximate forward bearing of N. 65 degrees E., approximately 7,600 feet to a point on the northerly boundary of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge located in section 22, T. 6 N., R. 40 E., Umiat Meridian at the line of extreme low tide;

Thence northwesterly, along the northerly boundary of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge at the line of extreme low tide on the seaward side of all offshore bars, reefs and islands, approximately 28 miles, to a point in section 33, T. 9 N., R. 36 E., that is due north of the corner of T. 8 N., Rs. 36 and 37 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence due South, approximatelymile to the corner of T. 8 N., Rs. 36 and 37 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly between Rs. 36 and 37 E., approximately 3 miles to the corner of sections 13, 18, 19, and 24, T. 8. N., Rs. 36 and 37 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 13 and 24, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 13, 14, 23 and 24, T. 8. N., R. 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence northerly, between sections 13 and 14, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 11, 12, 13 and 14, T. 8. N., R. 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 11 and 14, 10 and 15, 9 and 16, 8 and 17, approximately 4 miles to the corner of sections 7, 8, 17 and 18, T. 8 N., R. 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between sections 17 and 18, 19 and 20, 29 and 30 to the corner of sections 29, 30, 31 and 32, T. 8. N., R. 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 30 and 31, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 25, 30, 31 and 36, T. 8. N., Rs. 35 and 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between sections 31 and 36, approximately 1 mile to the corner of Tps. 7 and 8 N., Rs. 35 and 36 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between Tps. 7 and 8 N., approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 1, 2, 35 and 36, Tps. 7 and 8 N., R. 35 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence Northerly, between sections 35 and 36 and 25 and 26, 23 and 24, approximately 3 miles to the corner of sections 13, 14, 23 and 24, T. 8 N., R. 35 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 14 and 23, 15 and 22, 16 and 21, 17 and 20, 18 and 19, 13 and 24, 14 and 23, 15 and 22, 16 and 21, 17 and 20, approximately 10 miles to the corner of sections 17, 18, 19 and 20, T. 8 N., R. 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence northerly, between sections 17 and 18, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 7, 8, 17 and 18, T. 8 N., R. 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 7 and 18, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 7, 12, 13 and 18, T. 8 N., Rs. 33 and 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between Rs. 33 and 34 E., approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 13, 18, 19 and 24, T. 8 N., Rs. 33 and 34 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 13 and 24, 14 and 23, 15 and 22, approximately 3 miles to the corner of sections 15, 16, 21 and 22, T. 8 N., R. 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between sections 21 and 22, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 21, 22, 27 and 28, T. 8 N., R. 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 21 and 28, approximately one mile to the corner of sections 20, 21, 28 and 29, T. 8 N., R. 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between sections 28 and 33, 29 and 32, approximately 2 miles to the corner of sections 4, 5, 32 and 33, Tps. 7 and 8 N., R. 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between Tps. 7 and 8 N., approximately 2 miles to the corner of Tps. 7 and 8 N., Rs. 32 and 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between section 1 and 6 approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 1, 6, 7, and 12, T. 7 N., Rs. 32 and 33 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 1 and 12, approximately 1 mile to the corner of sections 1, 2, 11 and 12, T. 7 N., R. 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence northerly, between sections 1 and 2, 35 and 36, approximately 2 miles to the corner of sections 25, 26, 35 and 36, T. 8 N., R. 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between sections 26 and 27, 34 and 35, approximately 2 miles to the corner of sections 27, 28, 33 and 34, T. 8 N., R. 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, between sections 33 and 34, approximately one mile to the corner of sections 3, 4, 33 and 34, Tps. 7 and 8 N., R. 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, between Tps. 7 and 8 N., approximately 3 miles to the corner of Tps. 7 and 8 N., Rs. 31 and 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence northerly, between ranges 31 and 32 E., approximately 3miles to a point on the northerly boundary of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge at the line of extreme low tide located between sections 13 and 18, T. 8 N., Rs. 31 and 32 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence westerly, along the northerly boundary of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge approximately 57 miles along the line of extreme low water of the Arctic Ocean, including all offshore bars, reefs, and islands, to the most westerly tip of the most northwesterly island, westerly of Brownlow Point, section 6, T. 9 N., R. 25 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence on an approximate forward bearing of S. 56degree W. approximately 3miles to the mean high water line of the extreme west bank of the Canning River in section 15, T. 9 N., R. 24 E., Umiat Meridian;

Thence southerly, along the mean high water line of the west bank of the Canning River approximately 32 miles to the meander corner on the First Standard Parallel North at a point on the southerly boundary of section 35, T. 5 N., R. 23 E., Umiat Meridian, the point of beginning.
