
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - The National Wildlife Refuge System
#### PART 38 - MIDWAY ATOLL NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 38.1 Applicability.

(a) The regulations of this part apply to the Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge. For the purpose of this part, the Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge includes the Midway Islands, Hawaiian Group, between the parallels of 28 deg. 5&#x2032; and 28 deg. 25&#x2032; North latitude, and their territorial seas located approximately between the meridians of 177 deg. 10&#x2032; and 177 deg. 30&#x2032; West longitude, as were placed under the jurisdiction and control of the Interior Department by the provisions of Executive Order No. 13022 of October 31, 1996 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 224).

(b) Administration of Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge is governed by the regulations of this part and parts 25-32 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations; the general principles of common law; the provisions of the criminal laws of the United States in their entirety including the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 13 and those provisions that were not specifically applied to unincorporated possessions; the laws applicable under the special maritime jurisdiction contained in 48 U.S.C. 644a; and the provisions of the criminal laws of the State of Hawaii to the extent the criminal laws of the State of Hawaii do not conflict with the criminal laws of the United States.
