
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Management of Fisheries Conservation Areas
#### PART 71 - HUNTING AND SPORT FISHING ON NATIONAL FISH HATCHERIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 71.2 What are the requirements for hunting on areas of the National Fish Hatchery System?

The following provisions apply to public hunting and sport fishing on a national fish hatchery area:

(a) Each person must secure and possess the required State license.

(b) Each person age 16 and older must obtain and possess a Federal Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp (Federal Duck Stamp) while hunting migratory waterfowl.

(c) Each person must comply with the applicable provisions of Federal laws and regulations including this subchapter and the current Federal migratory bird regulations at 50 CFR parts 20 and 21.

(d) Each person must comply with the applicable provisions of the laws and regulations of the State in which a hatchery is located unless further restricted by Federal law or regulation.

(e) Each person must comply with the terms and conditions authorizing access and use of the national fish hatchery area.

(f) The regulations contained in this part are prescribed for hunting and sport fishing of all National Fish Hatcheries and supplement the general National Wildlife Refuge System regulations found in 50 CFR chapter I, subchapter C. The general National Wildlife Refuge System regulations are automatically applicable in their entirety to the National Fish Hatcheries except as supplemented by the regulations in this part. If the regulations in this part conflict with the general National Wildlife Refuge System regulations, comply with these regulations.

(g) Each person must comply with the provisions of any special notices governing hunting on the national fish hatchery area. Such special notices will be posted throughout the area and will be available at the headquarters of the fish hatchery to which they relate.

(1) Special notices are issued only after the announcement of applicable annual State and Federal hunting regulations.

(2) Special notices may contain the following items:

(i) Wildlife species which may be hunted, or species of fish which may be taken;

(ii) Seasons;

(iii) Bag/creel limits;

(iv) Methods of hunting or fishing;

(v) Description of areas open to hunting or fishing; or

(vi) Other provisions as required.

(3) Special notices will not liberalize existing State law or regulations.

(4) Special notices may be amended as needed to meet management responsibilities for the area.
