
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Management of Fisheries Conservation Areas
#### PART 71 - HUNTING AND SPORT FISHING ON NATIONAL FISH HATCHERIES
##### Subpart B - Hatchery-Specific Regulations for Hunting and Fishing
###### ยง 71.12 National fish hatcheries open for sport fishing.
####### Berkshire National Fish Hatchery.

(b)We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the hatchery subject to the following conditions:

(1) Anglers must abide by posted signage.

(2) Anglers must remain at least 50 feet away from raceways and fish culture areas to maintain biosecurity of stocked fish populations.

(3) On the Konkapot River, we prohibit angling equipment, including, but not limited to, live bait, boots, and rods, near the areas described in paragraph (b)(2).

(4) We limit access to Outreach Pond to youth (ages 13 and younger), supervised by an adult at all times.

(5) We allow fishing on Outreach Pond during open hatchery hours only.

(6) We prohibit the use of baitfish, shiners, and minnows in the Outreach Pond.

(7) We prohibit all fishing methods of take besides rods on Outreach Pond.

(8) We allow a daily creel limit of three (3) fish per individual at Outreach Pond. There is no creel limit during fishing derbies.

(9) We prohibit fishing during the winter in Outreach Pond.

(10) We prohibit the use of all lead, including tackle containing lead, when fishing in Outreach Pond.
