
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart C - License Revenue
###### ยง 80.20 What does revenue from hunting and fishing licenses include?

Hunting and fishing license revenue includes:

(a) All proceeds from State-issued general or special hunting and fishing licenses, permits, stamps, tags, access and use fees, and other State charges to hunt or fish for recreational purposes. Revenue from licenses sold by vendors is net income to the State after deducting reasonable sales fees or similar amounts retained by vendors.

(b) Real or personal property acquired with license revenue.

(c) Income from the sale, lease, or rental of, granting rights to, or a fee for access to real or personal property acquired or constructed with license revenue.

(d) Income from the sale, lease, or rental of, granting rights to, or a fee for access to a recreational opportunity, product, or commodity derived from real or personal property acquired, managed, maintained, or produced by using license revenue.

(e) Interest, dividends, or other income earned on license revenue.

(f) Reimbursements for expenditures originally paid with license revenue.

(g) Payments received for services funded by license revenue.
