
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart C - License Revenue
###### ยง 80.22 What must a State do to resolve a declaration of diversion?

The State must complete the actions in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section to resolve a declaration of diversion. The State must use a source of funds other than license revenue to fund the replacement of license revenue.

(a) If necessary, the State must enact adequate legislative prohibitions to prevent diversions of license revenue.

(b) The State fish and wildlife agency must replace all diverted cash derived from license revenue and the interest lost up to the date of repayment. It must enter into State records the receipt of this cash and interest.

(c) The agency must receive either the revenue earned from diverted property during the period of diversion or the current market rental rate of any diverted property, whichever is greater.

(d) The agency must take one of the following actions to resolve a diversion of real, personal, or intellectual property:

(1) Regain management control of the property, which must be in about the same condition as before diversion;

(2) Receive replacement property that meets the criteria in paragraph (e) of this section; or

(3) Receive a cash amount at least equal to the current market value of the diverted property only if the Director agrees that the actions described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section are impractical.

(e) To be acceptable under paragraph (d)(2) of this section:

(1) Replacement property must have both:

(i) Market value that at least equals the current market value of the diverted property; and

(ii) Fish or wildlife benefits that at least equal those of the property diverted.

(2) The Director must agree that the replacement property meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
