
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart F - Allocation of Funds by an Agency
###### ยง 80.66 What requirements apply to allocation of funds between marine and freshwater fisheries projects?

The requirements of this section apply to allocation of funds between marine and freshwater fisheries projects.

(a) When a State fish and wildlife agency allocates and obligates funds it must meet the following requirements:

(1) The ratio of total funds obligated for marine fisheries projects to total funds obligated for marine and freshwater fisheries projects combined must equal the ratio of resident marine anglers to the total number of resident anglers in the State; and

(2) The ratio of total funds obligated for freshwater fisheries projects to total funds obligated for marine and freshwater fisheries projects combined must equal the ratio of resident freshwater anglers to the total number of resident anglers in the State.

(b) A resident angler is one who fishes for recreational purposes in the same State where he or she maintains legal residence.

(c) Agencies must determine the relative distribution of resident anglers in the State between those that fish in marine environments and those that fish in freshwater environments. Agencies must use the National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife-associated Recreation or another statistically reliable survey or technique approved by the Regional Director for this purpose.

(d) If an agency uses statistical sampling to determine the relative distribution of resident anglers in the State between those that fish in marine environments and those that fish in freshwater environments, the sampling must be complete by the earlier of the following:

(1) Five years after the last statistical sample; or

(2) Before completing the first certification following any change in the licensing system that could affect the number of sportfishing license holders.

(e) The amounts allocated from each year's apportionment do not necessarily have to result in an equitable allocation for each year. However, the amounts allocated over a variable period, not to exceed 3 years, must result in an equitable allocation between marine and freshwater fisheries projects.

(f) Agencies that fail to allocate funds equitably between marine and freshwater fisheries projects may become ineligible to use Sport Fish Restoration program funds. These agencies must remain ineligible until they demonstrate to the Director that they have allocated the funds equitably.
