
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart G - Application for a Grant
###### ยง 80.81 What must an agency submit when applying for a comprehensive-management-system grant?

A State fish and wildlife agency must submit the following documents when applying for a comprehensive-management-system grant:

(a) The standard form for an application for Federal assistance in a mandatory grant program.

(b) The standard forms for assurances for nonconstruction programs and construction programs as applicable. Agencies may submit these standard forms for assurances annually to the Regional Director for use with all applications for Federal assistance in the programs and subprograms under the Acts.

(c) A statement of cost estimates by subaccount. Agencies may obtain the subaccount numbers from the Service's Regional Division of Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration.

(d) Supporting documentation explaining how the proposed work complies with the Acts, the provisions of this part, and other applicable laws and regulations.

(e) A statement of the agency's intent to carry out and fund part or all of its comprehensive management system through a grant.

(f) A description of the agency's comprehensive management system including inventory, strategic plan, operational plan, and evaluation. "Inventory" refers to the process or processes that an agency uses to:

(1) Determine actual, projected, and desired resource and asset status; and

(2) Identify management problems, issues, needs, and opportunities.

(g) A description of the State fish and wildlife agency program covered by the comprehensive management system.

(h) Contact information for the State fish and wildlife agency employee who is directly responsible for the integrity and operation of the comprehensive management system.

(i) A description of how the public can take part in decisionmaking for the comprehensive management system.
