
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart H - General Grant Administration
###### ยง 80.90 What are the grantee's responsibilities?

A State fish and wildlife agency as a grantee is responsible for all of the actions required by this section.

(a) Compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.

(b) Supervision to ensure that the work follows the terms of the grant, including:

(1) Proper and effective use of funds;

(2) Maintenance of records;

(3) Submission of complete and accurate Federal financial reports and performance reports by the due dates in the terms and conditions of the grant; and

(4) Regular inspection and monitoring of work in progress.

(c) Selection and supervision of personnel to ensure that:

(1) Adequate and competent personnel are available to complete the grant-funded work on schedule; and

(2) Project personnel meet time schedules, accomplish the proposed work, meet objectives, and submit the required reports.

(d) Settlement of all procurement-related contractual and administrative issues.

(e) Giving reasonable access to work sites and records by employees and contractual auditors of the Service, the Department of the Interior, and the Comptroller General of the United States.

(1) Access is for the purpose of:

(i) Monitoring progress, conducting audits, or other reviews of grant-funded projects; and

(ii) Monitoring the use of license revenue.

(2) Regulations on the uniform administrative requirements for grants awarded by the Department of the Interior describe the records that are subject to these access requirements.

(3) The closeout of an award does not affect the grantee's responsibilities described in this section.

(f) Control of all assets acquired under the grant to ensure that they serve the purpose for which acquired throughout their useful life.
