
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart H - General Grant Administration
###### ยง 80.100 Does an agency have to display one of the symbols in this part on a completed project?

No. A State fish and wildlife agency does not have to display one of the symbols in ยง 80.99 on a project completed under the Acts. However, the Service encourages agencies to display the appropriate symbol following these requirements or guidelines:

(a) An agency may display the appropriate symbol(s) on:

(1) Areas such as wildlife-management areas, shooting ranges, and sportfishing and boating-access facilities that were acquired, developed, operated, or maintained with funds authorized by the Acts; and

(2) Printed or Web-based material or other visual representations of project accomplishments.

(b) An agency may require a subgrantee to display the appropriate symbol or symbols in the places described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The Director or Regional Director may authorize an agency to use the symbols in a manner other than as described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The Director or Regional Director may authorize other persons, organizations, agencies, or governments to use the symbols for purposes related to the Acts by entering into a written agreement with the user. An applicant must state how it intends to use the symbol(s), to what it will attach the symbol(s), and the relationship to the specific Act.

(e) The user of the symbol(s) must indemnify and defend the United States and hold it harmless from any claims, suits, losses, and damages from:

(1) Any allegedly unauthorized use of any patent, process, idea, method, or device by the user in connection with its use of the symbol(s), or any other alleged action of the user; and

(2) Any claims, suits, losses, and damages arising from alleged defects in the articles or services associated with the symbol(s).

(f) The appearance of the symbol(s) on projects or products indicates that the manufacturer of the product pays excise taxes in support of the respective Act(s), and that the project was funded under the respective Act(s) (26 U.S.C. 4161, 4162, 4181, 4182, 9503, and 9504). The Service and the Department of the Interior make no representation or endorsement whatsoever by the display of the symbol(s) as to the quality, utility, suitability, or safety of any product, service, or project associated with the symbol(s).

(g) No one may use any of the symbols in any other manner unless the Director or Regional Director authorizes it. Unauthorized use of the symbol(s) is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 701 and subjects the violator to possible fines and imprisonment.
