
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart I - Program Income
###### ยง 80.120 What is program income?

(a) Program income is gross income received by the grantee or subgrantee and earned only as a result of the grant during the grant period. Upon request from the State agency and approval of the Service, the option at 2 CFR 200.307(b) may be allowed.

(b) Program income includes revenue from any of the following:

(1) Services performed under a grant.

(2) Use or rental of real or personal property acquired, constructed, or managed with grant funds.

(3) Payments by concessioners or contractors under an arrangement with the agency or subgrantee to provide a service in support of grant objectives on real property acquired, constructed, or managed with grant funds.

(4) Sale of items produced under a grant.

(5) Fees collected by the agency for delivering or providing hunter education, aquatic education, or other courses.

(6) Royalties and license fees for copyrighted material, patents, and inventions developed as a result of a grant.

(7) Sale of a product of mining, drilling, forestry, or agriculture during the period of a grant that supports the:

(i) Mining, drilling, forestry, or agriculture; or

(ii) Acquisition of the land on which these activities occurred.

(c) Program income does not include any of the following:

(1) Interest on grant funds, rebates, credits, discounts, or refunds.

(2) Sales receipts retained by concessioners or contractors under an arrangement with the agency to provide a service in support of grant objectives on real property acquired, constructed, or managed with grant funds.

(3) Cash received by the agency or by volunteer instructors to cover incidental costs of a hunter education, aquatic education, or other classes. Incidental costs are small amounts and typically not essential to the training delivery. Materials purchased at cost by the student, separate from course fees, are incidental costs.

(4) Cooperative farming or grazing arrangements as described at ยง 80.98.

(5) Proceeds from the sale of real property, equipment, or supplies.
