
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart J - Real Property
###### ยง 80.131 Does an agency have to hold an easement acquired under a grant?

A State fish and wildlife agency must hold an easement acquired under a grant, but it may share certain rights or responsibilities as described in paragraph (b) of this section if consistent with State law.

(a) Any sharing of rights or responsibilities does not diminish the agency's responsibility to manage the easement for its authorized purpose.

(b) The agency may share holding or enforcement of an easement only in the following situations:

(1) The State or another administrative unit of State government may hold an easement on behalf of its fish and wildlife agency.

(2) The agency may subgrant the concurrent right to hold the easement to a nonprofit organization or to a local or tribal government. A concurrent right to hold an easement means that both the State agency and the subgrantee hold the easement and share its rights and responsibilities.

(3) The agency may subgrant a right of enforcement to a nonprofit organization or to a local or tribal government. This right of enforcement may allow the subgrantee to have reasonable access and entry to property protected under the easement for purposes of inspection, monitoring, and enforcement. The subgrantee's right of enforcement must not supersede and must be concurrent with the agency's right of enforcement.
