
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 80 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION AND DINGELL-JOHNSON SPORT FISH RESTORATION ACTS
##### Subpart J - Real Property
###### ยง 80.135 What if an agency allows a use of real property that interferes with its authorized purpose?

(a) When a State fish and wildlife agency allows a use of real property that interferes with its authorized purpose under a grant, the agency must fully restore the real property to its authorized purpose.

(b) If the agency cannot fully restore the real property to its authorized purpose, it must replace the real property using non-Federal funds.

(c) The agency must determine that the replacement property:

(1) Is of at least equal value at current market prices; and

(2) Has fish, wildlife, and public-use benefits consistent with the purposes of the original grant.

(d) The Regional Director may require the agency to obtain an appraisal and appraisal review to estimate the value of the replacement property at current market prices if the agency cannot support its assessment of value.

(e) The agency must obtain the Regional Director's approval of:

(1) Its determination of the value and benefits of the replacement property; and

(2) The documentation supporting this determination.

(f) The agency may have a reasonable time, up to 3 years from the date of notification by the Regional Director, to restore the real property to its authorized purpose or acquire replacement property. If the agency does not restore the real property to its authorized purpose or acquire replacement property within 3 years, the Director may declare the agency ineligible to receive new grants in the program or programs that funded the original acquisition.
