
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 85 - CLEAN VESSEL ACT GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application for Grants
###### ยง 85.20 Eligible activities.

(a) Eligible grant activities-coastal States:

(1) Eligible activities include identification in the coastal zone of all operational pumpout and dump stations, and surveys of recreational vessels in coastal waters with holding tanks or portable toilets, and the areas where those vessels congregate. Also eligible are costs of developing a list, including chart coordinates, of all operational pumpout and dump stations in the coastal zone of the State, for submission to the Fish and Wildlife Service.

(2) Plans for construction and renovation of pumpout and dump stations in the coastal zone of the State necessary to ensure that these stations are adequate and reasonably available to meet the needs of recreational vessels using the coastal waters of the State. Completed Stated-funded plans may be submitted after the technical guidelines appear in the

(b) Eligible grant activities-all States:

(1) Eligible grant activities include education/information program to educate/inform recreational boaters about the environmental pollution problems resulting from sewage discharges from vessels and to inform them of the location of pumpout and dump stations.

(2) Eligible grant activities include the construction, renovation, operation and maintenance of pumpout and dump stations, including floating restrooms in the water, not connected to land or structures connected to the land, used solely by boaters. Eligible grant activities also include any activity necessary to hold and transport sewage to sewage treatment plants, such as holding tanks, piping, haulage costs, and any activity necessary to get sewage treatment plants to accept sewage, such as installing bleed-in facilities.

(c) Ineligible activities:

(1) Activities that do not provide public benefits.

(2) Enforcement activities.

(3) Construction/renovation of upland restroom facilities.

(4) Construction, renovation, operation and maintenance of on-site sewage treatment plants, such as package treatment plants and septic systems, and of municipal sewage treatment plants for primary and secondary treatment.
