
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 85 - CLEAN VESSEL ACT GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Conditions on Use/Acceptance of Funds
###### ยง 85.43 Signs and symbols.
####### Pumpout symbol.

(b)(1) At appropriate times, to increase public awareness of the Clean Vessel Act Pumpout Grant Program, use a pumpout symbol according to Service specifications. Use the pumpout symbol as follows:

(i) As a sign at the entrance to a marina advertising the presence of a pumpout and/or portable toilet dump station;

(ii) As a directional sign within a marina;

(iii) As a sign at a pumpout and/or portable toilet dump station;

(iv) As a symbol on educational and informational material; and

(v) For other uses as appropriate to advance the purposes of the Clean Vessel Act.

(2) To avoid confusion with having two symbols, use the selected symbol both for pumpout stations and portable dump stations. The Service encourages the use of this symbol as it is not copyrighted. The NOAA NOS magenta "P" within a magenta circle will continue to be used on nautical charts to identify the location of pumpout and portable toilet dump stations. NOAA will include information about the selected pumpout symbol in the U.S. Coast Pilots, a supplement to the charts, to relate this symbol to the NOAA Nautical Chart magenta "P" and circle.

(3) All recipients identified in ยง 85.11 should display the appropriate pumpout symbol on facilities, such as pumpout and portable toilet dump stations, or on printed material or other visual representations relating to project accomplishments or education/information, and should encourage others to do so. Sub-recipients also should display the symbol and should encourage use by others for the purposes stated in this paragraph (b)(3).

(4) The Service encourages other persons or organizations, such as marinas with pumpout stations not constructed with Clean Vessel Act funds, to use the symbol to advance the purposes of the Clean Vessel Act program.

(5) The following specifications shall apply: The symbol is black, the background is white, and the border is international orange. There is no standard for the black and white, but use black and white colors, not shades. The standards for the international orange color is as follows: For day boards (signs), use retroflective international orange film. For paint, use international orange conforming to FED-STD 595B, chip number 12197 in daylight conditions. For inks, use Pantone Matching System color chart 179C. In order to ensure visibility after dark, use reflectorized film or paint, and/or artificial illumination. Pumpout symbol technical specifications to construct signs and for other purposes are available upon request.

(6) The following rules govern the graphic reproduction of the symbol:

(i) Do not use a smaller than legible symbol.

(ii) If you reduce or enlarge the symbol, maintain the same proportions.

(iii) Do not obscure the symbol by overprinting.

(iv) Do not place the symbol where it will be split by unlike backgrounds.

(v) Do not place the symbol on a background that is highly textured or patterned.

(vi) When appropriate, for economical reasons, depict the symbol in one-color (black) with a white background, rather than two-color (international orange and black) with white background.

(7) The pumpout symbol follows:
