
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 85 - CLEAN VESSEL ACT GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Conditions on Use/Acceptance of Funds
###### ยง 85.43 Signs and symbols.
####### Qualifying signs.

(c)(1) In conjunction with the symbol, you may use other qualifying signs below the symbol, either on the same sign or on a separate sign.

(i) You may place the message "PUMP OUT", "PUMPOUT STATION", "PORTABLE TOILET DUMP STATION", or other appropriate qualifier, beneath the symbol. Place the magenta-colored "P" and circle in front of the message to relate the pumpout symbol to the NOAA NOS nautical charts. Messages may be appropriate for several years until the symbol is understood without the message. When appropriate, substitute a black "P" and circle for economical reasons.

(ii) You may place directional arrows beneath the symbol to indicate the direction of pumpout or portable toilet dump station facilities.

(2) The following specifications shall apply: Symbols, such as directional arrows, and letters, are black, and the background is white. For using inks to create the magenta color, use PMS color chart 259U. Letters and black and white colors shall follow the Federal Highway Administration's Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), FHWA, 1988. The Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, provides for sale copies of the 1988 MUTCD, including Revision No. 3, dated September 3, 1993, Stock No. 050-001-00308-2.

(3) The same rules governing the graphic reproduction of the pumpout symbol, as described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, shall apply to qualifying signs.
