
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 85 - CLEAN VESSEL ACT GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Conditions on Use/Acceptance of Funds
###### ยง 85.43 Signs and symbols.
####### Pumpout slogan.

(d)(1) Use the pumpout slogan according to Service specifications to help increase boater awareness of the need to use pumpout and dump stations to properly dispose of their boat sewage. Use the slogan in conjunction with the pumpout symbol, on educational/informational material, and for other uses as appropriate to advance the purposes of the Clean Vessel Act. The slogan is not copyrighted, and the Service encourages its appropriate use.

(2) All recipients identified in ยง 85.11 should display the pumpout slogan on facilities, such as pumpout and portable toilet dump stations as appropriate, and on printed material or other visual representations relating to project accomplishments or education/information, and should encourage others to do so. Sub-recipients should display the slogan for purposes as stated above and should encourage others to do so.

(3) The Service encourages other persons or organizations, such as marinas with pumpout stations not constructed with Clean Vessel Act funds, to use the slogan to advance the purposes of the Clean Vessel Act program.

(4) The following specifications shall apply: Letters are black and background is white. The same reference under specifications for Qualifying Signs in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall apply.

(5) The same rules governing the graphic reproduction of the pumpout symbol, as described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, shall apply to the pumpout slogan.

(6) The pumpout slogan follows:

(e) All information signs, pumpout symbol, qualifying signs, and pumpout slogan identified in this section and the crediting logo identified in ยง 85.47, inform and educate boaters. Therefore, use the signs, symbol, slogan and logo as appropriate. For instance, a sign on the water directing boaters to a pumpout may only need the pumpout symbol, and a qualifying sign beneath, e.g., an arrow, and possibly the words "PUMPOUT STATION". For pumpout and dump stations, the pumpout symbol, slogan, information signs, including all information in paragraph (a) of this section, and the crediting and State logo may be appropriate. If desirable, add qualifying signs. Position a legible sign, symbol and logo either on the pumpout/dump station, on a separate sign, or both, for the greatest effect in informing and educating boaters. For other products such as print and video public service announcements, brochures, etc., the placement of symbols, etc. depends on space availability. The following order of priority dictates the order of use under limited space conditions: the pumpout symbol, slogan, 1-800-ASK-FISH telephone number and Sport Fish Restoration crediting logo. Add other information as appropriate. Use judgement when placing information on signs so as not to confuse the reader. Display the symbol, logo, slogan and information signs in the appropriate locations. To reduce wind drag when bolting signs on pilings, it was found helpful in the Northeast to make signs taller than wider. Symbol or logo size may vary. However, if you reduce or enlarge the symbol, maintain the same proportions.
