
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.40 Special rules - mammals.
####### Amount of permitted take on agricultural lands and private property near conservation land.

(iii)(A) The UDWR, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service, will ensure that permitted take on agricultural lands and properties within 0.8 km (0.5 mi) of conservation lands does not exceed 10 percent of the estimated rangewide population annually.

(B) On agricultural lands, the UDWR, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service, will limit permitted take to 7 percent of the estimated annual rangewide population and will limit within-colony take to one-half of a colony's estimated annual production. The UDWR, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service, will spatially distribute the 7 percent allowed take on agricultural lands across the three Recovery Units, based on the distribution of the total annual population estimate within each Recovery Unit.

(C) In setting take limits on properties within 0.8 km (0.5 mi) of conservation lands, the UDWR, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service, will consider the amount of take that occurs on agricultural lands. The State, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service, will restrict the remaining permitted take (the amount that would bring the total take up to 10 percent of the estimated annual rangewide population) on properties within 0.8 km (0.5 mi) of conservation lands to animals in excess of the baseline population. The baseline population of these lands is determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(D) of this section.

(D) Take on properties within 0.8 km (0.5 mi) of conservation lands is restricted to prairie dogs in excess of the baseline population. The baseline population is the highest estimated total (summer) population size on that property during the 5 years prior to the establishment of the conservation property, except that if no UDWR surveys to determine population size on a property were conducted during such 5-year period, the baseline population is the estimated total (summer) population size on that property as determined in the first survey conducted after the establishment of the conservation property. The baseline population will be established by the UDWR, or other parties as authorized in writing by the Service.

(E) Translocated Utah prairie dogs will count toward the take limits in paragraphs (g)(3)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
