
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 86 - BOATING INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Application for a Grant
###### ยง 86.44 What if I need more than the maximum Federal share and required match to complete my BIG-funded project?

(a) If you plan a BIG project that you cannot complete with the recommended maximum Federal award and the required match, you may:

(1) Find other sources of non-Federal funds to complete the project;

(2) Divide your larger project into smaller, distinct, stand-alone projects and apply for more than one BIG grant, either in the same year or in different years. One project cannot depend on the anticipated completion of another; or

(3) Combine your BIG Tier 1-State and BIG Tier 2-National funding to complete a project at a single location.

(b) If you are awarded a grant and find you cannot complete a BIG project with the Federal funds and required match, you may:

(1) Find other sources of non-Federal funds to complete the project.

(2) Consider if BIG Tier 1-State funds are available to help complete the project. This is not a guaranteed option.

(3) Ask for approval to revise the grant by following the requirements at subpart H of this part.

(c) For BIG Tier 2-National grants, we review and rank each application individually, and each must compete with other applications for the same award year.

(d) If you receive a BIG grant for one of your applications, we do not give preference to other applications you submit.

(e) If you do not complete your project, we may take one or more of the remedies for noncompliance found at 2 CFR 200.338, and any other regulations that apply.
