
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.40 Special rules - mammals.
####### Incidental take associated with agriculture.

(5)Utah prairie dogs may be taken when take is incidental to otherwise-legal activities associated with legal and standard agricultural practices on legitimately operating agricultural lands. Acceptable practices include plowing to depths that do not exceed 46 cm (18 in.), discing, harrowing, irrigating crops, mowing, harvesting, and bailing, as long as the activities are not intended to eradicate Utah prairie dogs. There is no numeric limit established for incidental take associated with standard agricultural practices. Incidental take is in addition to, and does not contribute to, the take limits described in paragraphs (g)(2) through (4) of this section. A permit is not required for incidental take associated with agricultural practices.

(6) If the Service receives evidence that take pursuant to paragraphs (g)(2) through (5) of this section is having an effect that is inconsistent with the conservation of the Utah prairie dog, the Service may immediately prohibit or restrict such take as appropriate for the conservation of the species. The Service will notify the permitting entities in writing if take restrictions are necessary.
