
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 86 - BOATING INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 86.72 What if I cannot complete the project during the period of performance?

(a) If you cannot complete the project during the 3-year period of performance, you may ask us for an extension. Your request must be in writing, and we must receive it before the end of the original period of performance.

(b) An extension is considered a revision of a grant and must follow guidance at ยง 86.101.

(c) We will approve an extension up to 2 years if your request:

(1) Describes in detail the work you have completed and the work that you plan to complete during the extension;

(2) Explains the reasons for delay;

(3) Includes a report on the status of the project budget; and

(4) Includes assurance that you have met or will meet all other terms and conditions of the grant.

(d) If you cannot complete the project during the extension period, you may ask us for a second extension. Your request must be in writing, and we must receive it before the end of the first extension. Your request for a second extension must include all of the information required at paragraph (b) of this section and, it must show that:

(1) The extension is justified;

(2) The delay in completion is not due to inaction, poor planning, or mismanagement; and

(3) You will achieve the project objectives by the end of the second extension.

(e) We require that the Regional Director and the Service's Assistant Director for the Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program approve requests to extend a project beyond 5 years of the grant start date.
