
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 86 - BOATING INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 86.74 How do I determine the useful life of a BIG-funded facility?
####### Step 3.

(3)If you are asking us to consider additional points for a physical component, technology, or technique under the criterion at ยง 86.51(c) that will increase the useful life, you must describe in your application:

(i) The capital improvement or component that you will apply the criterion at ยง 86.51(c) to;

(ii) The expected increase in useful life;

(iii) The sources of information that support your determination of an extended useful life; and

(iv) A description of how you expect the useful life will be increased.

(b) After you submit your application, but before we award your grant, you must:

(1) Confirm the useful life for each capital improvement using a generally accepted method.

(2) Provide any additional documents or information, if we request it.

(3) Consult and obtain agreement for your final useful life determinations at the State or Regional level, or both.

(4) Revise your application, as needed, to include the final useful life determination(s).

(c) If we find before we award the grant that you are unable to support your determination of an extended useful life at ยง 86.51(c), we will reduce your score and adjust the ranking of applications accordingly.

(d) You must finalize useful life in your grant by one of the following methods:

(i) State several useful-life expectations, one for each individual capital improvement you identified at paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or

(ii) State a single useful life for the whole project, based on the longest useful life of the capital improvements you identified at paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(e) States may decide to use only one of the methods described at paragraph (d) of this section for all BIG-funded projects in their State.
