
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Financial Assistance - Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Program
#### PART 86 - BOATING INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 86.76 How can I use the logo for BIG?

(a) You must use the Sport Fish Restoration logo on:

(1) BIG-funded facilities;

(2) Printed or Web-based material or other visual representations of BIG projects or achievements; and

(3) BIG-funded or BIG-related educational and informational material.

(b) You must require a subgrantee to display the logo in the places and on materials described at paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Businesses that contribute to or receive from the Trust Fund that we describe at ยง 86.30 may display the logo in conjunction with its associated products or projects.

(d) The Assistant Director or Regional Director may authorize other persons, organizations, agencies, or governments not identified in this section to use the logo for purposes related to BIG by entering into a written agreement with the user. The user must state how it intends to use the logo, to what it will attach the logo, and the relationship to BIG.

(e) The Service and the Department of the Interior make no representation or endorsement whatsoever by the display of the logo as to the quality, utility, suitability, or safety of any product, service, or project associated with the logo.

(f) The user of the logo must indemnify and defend the United States and hold it harmless from any claims, suits, losses, and damages from:

(1) Any allegedly unauthorized use of any patent, process, idea, method, or device by the user in connection with its use of the logo, or any other alleged action of the user; and

(2) Any claims, suits, losses, and damages arising from alleged defects in the articles or services associated with the logo.

(g) No one may use any part of the logo in any other manner unless the Service's Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration or Regional Director authorizes it. Unauthorized use of the logo is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 701 and subjects the violator to possible fines and imprisonment.
