
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 2 - AGENCY ORGANIZATION AND LOCATIONS
##### ยง 2.2 Regional offices.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has eight regional offices that are responsible for implementing national policies. Each Regional Director has jurisdiction over Service activities performed by field installations in the State(s) encompassed by the region. Field installations include ecological services stations, endangered species stations, fishery assistance offices, national fish hatcheries, national wildlife refuges, research laboratories, and wildlife assistance offices. Unless otherwise stated for a particular matter in the regulations, all persons may secure from the regional offices information or make submittals or requests, as well as obtain forms and instructions as to the scope and contents of papers or reports required of the public. The geographic jurisdictions and addresses of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife regional offices are as follows:

(a) Pacific Regional Office (Region 1-comprising the States of Hawaii, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington; the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and American Samoa, Guam, and other Pacific possessions), Eastside Federal Complex, 911 NE. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232.

(b) Southwest Regional Office (Region 2-comprising the States of Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas), 500 Gold Avenue SW., Room 9018 (P.O. Box 1306), Albuquerque, New Mexico 87102.

(c) Midwest Regional Office (Region 3-comprising the States of Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, and Wisconsin), 5600 American Boulevard West, Suite 990, Bloomington, Minnesota 55437.

(d) Southeast Regional Office (Region 4-comprising the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and the Virgin Islands and Caribbean possessions), 1875 Century Boulevard, Suite 400, Atlanta, Georgia 30345.

(e) Northeast Regional Office (Region 5-comprising the States of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia; and the District of Columbia), 300 Westgate Center Drive, Hadley, Massachusetts 01035.

(f) Mountain-Prairie Regional Office (Region 6-comprising the States of Colorado, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming), 134 Union Boulevard (P.O. Box 25486), Lakewood, Colorado 80228.

(g) Alaska Regional Office (Region 7-comprising the State of Alaska), 1011 E. Tudor Road, Anchorage, Alaska 99503.

(h) Pacific Southwest Regional Office (Region 8-comprising the States of California and Nevada), 2800 Cottage Way, Room W-2606, Sacramento, California 95825.
