
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Provisions
#### PART 92 - MIGRATORY BIRD SUBSISTENCE HARVEST IN ALASKA
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 92.6 Use and possession of migratory birds.
####### Bubo virginianus

(xxvii) Great horned owl ().

(2) Only Alaska Natives may sell or re-sell any authentic native article of handicraft or clothing that contains an inedible byproduct of a bird listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that was taken for food during the Alaska migratory bird subsistence harvest season. Eligibility under this paragraph (b)(2) can be shown by a Tribal Enrollment Card, Bureau of Indian Affairs card, or membership in the Silver Hand program. All sales and transportation of sold items are restricted to within the United States. Each sold item must be accompanied by either a certification (FWS Form 3-2484) signed by the artist or a Silver Hand insignia. Purchasers must retain this documentation and produce it upon the request of a law enforcement officer.

(3) Sales by consignment are allowed. Each consigned item must be accompanied by either a certification (FWS Form 3-2484) signed by the artist or Silver Hand insignia. All consignees, sellers, and purchasers must retain this documentation with each item and produce it upon the request of a law enforcement officer. All consignment sales are restricted to within the United States.

(4) The Office of Management and Budget reviewed and approved the information collection requirements contained in this section and assigned OMB Control No. 1018-0168. We use the information to monitor and enforce the regulations. We may not conduct or sponsor and you are not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. You may send comments on the information collection requirements to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, at the address listed at 50 CFR 2.1(b).
