
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 100.6 Licenses, permits, harvest tickets, tags, and reports.

(a) If you wish to take fish and wildlife on public lands for subsistence uses, you must be an eligible rural Alaska resident and:

(1) Possess the pertinent valid Alaska resident hunting and trapping licenses (no license required to take fish or shellfish, but you must be an Alaska resident) unless Federal licenses are required or unless otherwise provided for in subpart D of this part;

(2) Possess and comply with the provisions of any pertinent Federal permits (Federal Subsistence Registration Permit or Federal Designated Harvester Permit) required by subpart D of this part; and

(3) Possess and comply with the provisions of any pertinent permits, harvest tickets, or tags required by the State unless any of these documents or individual provisions in them are superseded by the requirements in subpart D of this part.

(b) In order to receive a Federal Subsistence Registration Permit or Federal Designated Harvester Permit or designate someone to harvest fish or wildlife for you under a Federal Designated Harvester Permit, you must be old enough to reasonably harvest that species yourself (or under the guidance of an adult).

(c) If you have been awarded a permit to take fish and wildlife, you must have that permit in your possession during the taking and must comply with all requirements of the permit and the regulations in this section pertaining to validation and reporting and to regulations in subpart D of this part pertaining to methods and means, possession and transportation, and utilization. Upon the request of a State or Federal law enforcement agent, you must also produce any licenses, permits, harvest tickets, tags, or other documents required by this section. If you are engaged in taking fish and wildlife under the regulations in this part, you must allow State or Federal law enforcement agents to inspect any apparatus designed to be used, or capable of being used to take fish or wildlife, or any fish or wildlife in your possession.

(d) You must validate the harvest tickets, tags, permits, or other required documents before removing your kill from the harvest site. You must also comply with all reporting provisions as set forth in subpart D of this part.

(e) If you take fish and wildlife under a community harvest system, you must report the harvest activity in accordance with regulations specified for that community in subpart D of this part, and as required by any applicable permit conditions. Individuals may be responsible for particular reporting requirements in the conditions permitting a specific community's harvest. Failure to comply with these conditions is a violation of the regulations in this part. Community harvests are reviewed annually under the regulations in subpart D of this part.

(f) You may not make a fraudulent application for Federal or State licenses, permits, harvest tickets or tags or intentionally file an incorrect harvest report.
