
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart B - Program Structure
###### ยง 100.14 Relationship to State procedures and regulations.

(a) State fish and game regulations apply to public lands and such laws are hereby adopted and made a part of the regulations in this part to the extent they are not inconsistent with, or superseded by, the regulations in this part.

(b) The Board may close public lands to hunting, trapping, or fishing, or take actions to restrict the taking of fish and wildlife when necessary to conserve healthy populations of fish and wildlife, continue subsistence uses of such populations, or pursuant to other applicable Federal law. The Board may review and adopt State openings, closures, or restrictions which serve to achieve the objectives of the regulations in this part.

(c) The Board may enter into agreements with the State in order to coordinate respective management responsibilities.

(d) Petition for repeal of subsistence rules and regulations. (1) The State of Alaska may petition the Secretaries for repeal of the subsistence rules and regulations in this part when the State has enacted and implemented subsistence management and use laws which:

(i) Are consistent with sections 803, 804, and 805 of ANILCA; and

(ii) Provide for the subsistence definition, preference, and participation specified in sections 803, 804, and 805 of ANILCA.

(2) The State's petition shall:

(i) Be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240, and the Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20240;

(ii) Include the entire text of applicable State legislation indicating compliance with sections 803, 804, and 805 of ANILCA; and

(iii) Set forth all data and arguments available to the State in support of legislative compliance with sections 803, 804, and 805 of ANILCA.

(3) If the Secretaries find that the State's petition contains adequate justification, a rulemaking proceeding for repeal of the regulations in this part will be initiated. If the Secretaries find that the State's petition does not contain adequate justification, the petition will be denied by letter or other notice, with a statement of the ground for denial.
