
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart B - Program Structure
###### ยง 100.18 Regulation adoption process.

(a) The Board will accept proposals for changes to the Federal subsistence regulations in subparts C or D of this part according to a published schedule, except for proposals for emergency and temporary special actions, which the Board will accept according to procedures set forth in ยง 100.19. The Board may establish a rotating schedule for accepting proposals on various sections of subpart C or subpart D regulations over a period of years. The Board will develop and publish proposed regulations in thepublish notice in local newspapers, and distribute comments on the proposed regulations in the form of proposals for public review.

(1) Proposals shall be made available for at least a thirty (30) day review by the Regional Councils. Regional Councils shall forward their recommendations on proposals to the Board. Such proposals with recommendations may be submitted in the time period as specified by the Board or as a part of the Regional Council's annual report described in ยง 100.11, whichever is earlier.

(2) The Board shall publish notice throughout Alaska of the availability of proposals received.

(3) The public shall have at least thirty (30) days to review and comment on proposals.

(4) After the comment period the Board shall meet to receive public testimony and consider the proposals. The Board shall consider traditional use patterns when establishing harvest levels and seasons, and methods and means. The Board may choose not to follow any recommendation which the Board determines is not supported by substantial evidence, violates recognized principles of fish and wildlife conservation, or would be detrimental to the satisfaction of subsistence needs. If a recommendation approved by a Regional Council is not adopted by the Board, the Board shall set forth the factual basis and the reasons for its decision in writing to the Regional Council.

(5) Following consideration of the proposals the Board shall publish final regulations pertaining to subparts C and D of this part in the

(b) Proposals for changes to subparts A and B of this part shall be accepted by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with 43 CFR part 14.
