
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.26 Subsistence taking of wildlife.
####### Prohibited methods and means.

(b)Except for special provisions found at paragraphs (n)(1) through (26) of this section, the following methods and means of taking wildlife for subsistence uses are prohibited:

(1) Shooting from, on, or across a highway.

(2) Using any poison.

(3) Using a helicopter in any manner, including transportation of individuals, equipment, or wildlife; however, this prohibition does not apply to transportation of an individual, gear, or wildlife during an emergency rescue operation in a life-threatening situation.

(4) Taking wildlife from a motorized land or air vehicle when that vehicle is in motion, or from a motor-driven boat when the boat's progress from the motor's power has not ceased.

(5) Using a motorized vehicle to drive, herd, or molest wildlife.

(6) Using or being aided by use of a machine gun, set gun, or a shotgun larger than 10 gauge.

(7) Using a firearm other than a shotgun, muzzle-loaded rifle, rifle, or pistol using center-firing cartridges for the taking of ungulates, bear, wolves, or wolverine, except that-

(i) An individual in possession of a valid trapping license may use a firearm that shoots rimfire cartridges to take wolves and wolverine; and

(ii) Only a muzzle-loading rifle of .54-caliber or larger, or a .45-caliber muzzle-loading rifle with a 250-grain, or larger, elongated slug may be used to take brown bear, black bear, elk, moose, musk ox, and mountain goat.

(8) Using or being aided by use of a pit, fire, artificial light, radio communication, artificial salt lick, explosive, barbed arrow, bomb, smoke, chemical, conventional steel trap with a jaw spread over 9 inches, or conibear style trap with a jaw spread over 11 inches.

(9) Using a snare, except that an individual in possession of a valid hunting license may use nets and snares to take unclassified wildlife, ptarmigan, grouse, or hares; and individuals in possession of a valid trapping license may use snares to take furbearers.

(10) Using a trap to take ungulates or bear.

(11) Using hooks to physically snag, impale, or otherwise take wildlife; however, hooks may be used as a trap drag.

(12) Using a crossbow to take ungulates, bear, wolf, or wolverine in any area restricted to hunting by bow and arrow only.

(13) Taking of ungulates, bear, wolf, or wolverine with a bow, unless the bow is capable of casting an inch-wide broadhead-tipped arrow at least 175 yards horizontally, and the arrow and broadhead together weigh at least 1 ounce (437.5 grains).

(14) Using bait for taking ungulates, bear, wolf, or wolverine; except you may use bait to take wolves and wolverine with a trapping license, and you may use bait to take black bears and brown bears with a hunting license as authorized in Unit-specific regulations at paragraphs (n)(1) through (26) of this section. Baiting of black bears and brown bears is subject to the following restrictions:

(i) Before establishing a bear bait station, you must register the site with ADF&G.

(ii) When using bait, you must clearly mark the site with a sign reading "black bear bait station" that also displays your hunting license number and ADF&G-assigned number.

(iii) You may use only biodegradable materials for bait; if fish or wildlife is used as bait, only the head, bones, viscera, or skin of legally harvested fish and wildlife, the skinned carcasses of furbearers, and unclassified wildlife may be used, except that in Units 7 and 15, fish or fish parts may not be used as bait. Scent lures may be used at registered bait stations.

(iv) You may not use bait withinmile of a publicly maintained road or trail.

(v) You may not use bait within 1 mile of a house or other permanent dwelling, or within 1 mile of a developed campground or developed recreational facility.

(vi) When using bait, you must remove litter and equipment from the bait station site when done hunting.

(vii) You may not give or receive payment for the use of a bait station, including barter or exchange of goods.

(viii) You may not have more than two bait stations with bait present at any one time.

(15) Taking swimming ungulates, bears, wolves, or wolverine.

(16) Taking or assisting in the taking of ungulates, bear, wolves, wolverine, or other furbearers before 3 a.m. following the day in which airborne travel occurred (except for flights in regularly scheduled commercial aircraft). This restriction does not apply to subsistence taking of deer (except on NPS lands) and of caribou on the Nushagak Peninsula (a portion of Units 17A and 17C) during Jan. 1-Mar. 31, provided the hunter is 300 feet from the airplane; moreover, this restriction does not apply to subsistence setting of snares or traps, or the removal of furbearers from traps or snares.

(17) Taking a bear cub or a sow accompanied by cub(s).
