
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.26 Subsistence taking of wildlife.
####### Traditional religious ceremonies.

(m)You may take wildlife, outside of established season or harvest limits, for food in traditional religious ceremonies, which are part of a funerary or mortuary cycle, including memorial potlatches, under the following provisions:

(1) The harvest does not violate recognized principles of wildlife conservation and uses the methods and means allowable for the particular species published in the applicable Federal regulations. The appropriate Federal land manager will establish the number, species, sex, or location of harvest, if necessary, for conservation purposes. Other regulations relating to ceremonial harvest may be found in the Unit-specific regulations in paragraph (n) of this section.

(2) No permit or harvest ticket is required for harvesting under this section; however, the harvester must be a federally qualified subsistence user with customary and traditional use in the area where the harvesting will occur.

(3) In Units 1-26 (except for Koyukon/Gwich'in potlatch ceremonies in Unit 20F, 21, 24, or 25):

(i) A tribal chief, village or tribal council president, or the chief's or president's designee for the village in which the religious/cultural ceremony will be held, or a federally qualified subsistence user outside of a village or tribal-organized ceremony, must notify the nearest Federal land manager that a wildlife harvest will take place. The notification must include the species, harvest location, and number of animals expected to be taken.

(ii) Immediately after the wildlife is taken, the tribal chief, village or tribal council president or designee, or other federally qualified subsistence user must create a list of the successful hunters and maintain these records, including the name of the decedent for whom the ceremony will be held. If requested, this information must be available to an authorized representative of the Federal land manager.

(iii) The tribal chief, village or tribal council president or designee, or other federally qualified subsistence user outside of the village in which the religious/cultural ceremony will be held must report to the Federal land manager the harvest location, species, sex, and number of animals taken as soon as practicable, but not more than 15 days after the wildlife is taken.

(4) In Units 20F, 21, 24, and 25 (for Koyukon/Gwich'in potlatch ceremonies only):

(i) Taking wildlife outside of established season and harvest limits is authorized if it is for food for the traditional Koyukon/Gwich'in Potlatch Funerary or Mortuary ceremony and if it is consistent with conservation of healthy populations.

(ii) Immediately after the wildlife is taken, the tribal chief, village or tribal council president, or the chief's or president's designee for the village in which the religious ceremony will be held must create a list of the successful hunters and maintain these records. The list must be made available, after the harvest is completed, to a Federal land manager upon request.

(iii) As soon as practical, but not more than 15 days after the harvest, the tribal chief, village council president, or designee must notify the Federal land manager about the harvest location, species, sex, and number of animals taken.
