
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.26 Subsistence taking of wildlife.
####### Unit 12.

(12)Unit 12 consists of the Tanana River drainage upstream from the Robertson River, including all drainages into the east bank of the Robertson River, and the White River drainage in Alaska, but excluding the Ladue River drainage.

(i) Unit-specific regulations:

(A) You may use bait to hunt black and brown bear between April 15 and June 30; you may use bait to hunt wolves on FWS and BLM lands.

(B) You may not use a steel trap, or a snare using cable smaller than-inch diameter to trap coyotes or wolves in Unit 12 during April and October.

(C) One moose without calf may be taken from June 20 through July 31 in the Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve in Unit 11 or 12 for the Batzulnetas Culture Camp. Two hunters from either Chistochina or Mentasta Village may be designated by the Mt. Sanford Tribal Consortium to receive the Federal subsistence harvest permit. The permit may be obtained from a Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve office.

(D) A community harvest system for caribou and moose is authorized on Federal public lands in Unit 12 within the Tok and Little Tok River drainages south of the Tok River bridge and east of the Tok Cutoff Road, and within the Nabesna River drainage west of the east bank of the Nabesna River upstream from the southern boundary of Tetlin National Wildlife Refuge and that portion of Unit 12 that is east of the Nabesna River and south of the Pickerel Lake Winter Trail running southeast from Pickerel Lake to the Canadian border. This community harvest system is for federally qualified subsistence users living within the Ahtna traditional communities of Chistochina, Chitina, Copper Center, Gakona, Gulkana, Mentasta Lake, and Tazlina and is subject to the framework established by the Federal Subsistence Board.
