
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.26 Subsistence taking of wildlife.
####### Unit 19.

(19)(i) Unit 19 consists of the Kuskokwim River drainage upstream, excluding the drainages of Arhymot Lake, from a line starting at the outlet of Arhymot Lake at Crooked Creek (locally known as Johnson River), then along the south bank of Crooked Creek downstream to the northern terminus of Crooked Creek to the Yukon- Kuskokwim Portage (locally known as the Mud Creek Tramway), then along the west side of the tramway to Mud Creek, then along the westerly bank of Mud Creek downstream to an unnamed slough of the Kuskokwim River (locally known as First Slough or Kalskag Slough), then along the west bank of this unnamed slough downstream to its confluence with the Kuskokwim River, then southeast across the Kuskokwim River to its southerly bank, then along the south bank of the Kuskokwim River upriver to the confluence of a Kuskokwim River slough locally known as Old River, then across Old River to the downriver terminus of the island formed by Old River and the Kuskokwim River, then along the north bank of the main channel of Old River to Igyalleq Creek (Whitefish Creek), then along the south and west bank of Igyalleq Creek to Whitefish Lake, then directly across Whitefish Lake to Ophir Creek then along the west bank of Ophir Creek to its headwaters at 61&#xB0;10.22&#x2032; N lat., 159&#xB0;46.05&#x2033; W long.:

(A) Unit 19A consists of the Kuskokwim River drainage downstream from and including the Moose Creek drainage on the north bank and downstream from and including the Stony River drainage on the south bank, excluding Unit 19B;

(B) Unit 19B consists of the Aniak River drainage upstream from and including the Salmon River drainage, the Holitna River drainage upstream from and including the Bakbuk Creek drainage, that area south of a line from the mouth of Bakbuk Creek to the radar dome at Sparrevohn Air Force Base, including the Hoholitna River drainage upstream from that line, and the Stony River drainage upstream from and including the Can Creek drainage;

(C) Unit 19C consists of that portion of Unit 19 south and east of a line from Benchmark M#1.26 (approximately 1.26 miles south of the northwestern corner of the original Mt. McKinley National Park boundary) to the peak of Lone Mountain, then due west to Big River, including the Big River drainage upstream from that line, and including the Swift River drainage upstream from and including the North Fork drainage; and

(D) Unit 19D consists of the remainder of Unit 19.

(ii) In the following areas, the taking of wildlife for subsistence uses is prohibited or restricted on public land:

(A) You may not take wildlife for subsistence uses on lands within Mount McKinley National Park as it existed prior to December 2, 1980. Subsistence uses as authorized by this paragraph (n)(19) are permitted in Denali National Preserve and lands added to Denali National Park on December 2, 1980.

(B) In the Upper Kuskokwim Controlled Use Area, which consists of that portion of Unit 19D upstream from the mouth of the Selatna River, but excluding the Selatna and Black River drainages, to a line extending from Dyckman Mountain on the northern Unit 19D boundary southeast to the 1,610-foot crest of Munsatli Ridge, then south along Munsatli Ridge to the 2,981-foot peak of Telida Mountain, then northeast to the intersection of the western boundary of Denali National Preserve with the Minchumina-Telida winter trail, then south along the western boundary of Denali National Preserve to the southern boundary of Unit 19D, you may not use aircraft for hunting moose, including transportation of any moose hunter or moose part; however, this does not apply to transportation of a moose hunter or moose part by aircraft between publicly owned airports in the Controlled Use Area, or between a publicly owned airport within the area and points outside the area.

(iii) Unit-specific regulations:

(A) You may use bait to hunt black bear between April 15 and June 30.

(B) You may hunt brown bear by State registration permit in lieu of a resident tag in those portions of Units 19A and 19B downstream of and including the Aniak River drainage if you have obtained a State registration permit prior to hunting.

(C) In Unit 19C, individual residents of Nikolai may harvest sheep during the Aug. 10 to Sep. 20 season and not have that animal count against the community harvest limit (during the Oct. 1 to Mar. 30 season). Individual residents of Nikolai that harvest a sheep under State regulations may not participate in the Oct. 1 to Mar. 30 community harvest.
