
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### No sale to, nor purchase by, fisheries businesses.

(13)(i) You may not sell fish, their parts, or their eggs taken under the regulations in this part to any individual, business, or organization required to be licensed as a fisheries business under Alaska Statute AS 43.75.011 (commercial limited-entry permit or crew license holders excluded) or to any other business as defined under Alaska Statute 43.70.110(1) as part of its business transactions.

(ii) If you are required to be licensed as a fisheries business under Alaska Statute AS 43.75.011 (commercial limited-entry permit or crew license holders excluded) or are a business as defined under Alaska Statute 43.70.110(1), you may not purchase, receive, or sell fish, their parts, or their eggs taken under the regulations in this part as part of your business transactions.

(14) Except as provided elsewhere in this section, you may not take rainbow/steelhead trout.

(15) You may not use fish taken for subsistence use or under subsistence regulations in this part as bait for commercial or sport fishing purposes.

(16) Unless specified otherwise in this section, you may use a rod and reel to take fish without a subsistence fishing permit. Harvest limits applicable to the use of a rod and reel to take fish for subsistence uses shall be as follows:

(i) If you are required to obtain a subsistence fishing permit for an area, that permit is required to take fish for subsistence uses with rod and reel in that area. The harvest and possession limits for taking fish with a rod and reel in those areas are the same as indicated on the permit issued for subsistence fishing with other gear types.

(ii) Except as otherwise provided for in this section, if you are not required to obtain a subsistence fishing permit for an area, the harvest and possession limits for taking fish for subsistence uses with a rod and reel are the same as for taking fish under State of Alaska subsistence fishing regulations in those same areas. If the State does not have a specific subsistence season and/or harvest limit for that particular species, the limit shall be the same as for taking fish under State of Alaska sport fishing regulations.

(17) Unless restricted in this section, or unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit, you may take fish for subsistence uses at any time.

(18) Provisions on ADF&G subsistence fishing permits that are more restrictive or in conflict with the provisions contained in this section do not apply to Federal subsistence users.

(19) You may not intentionally waste or destroy any subsistence-caught fish or shellfish; however, you may use for bait or other purposes, whitefish, herring, and species for which harvest limits, seasons, or other regulatory methods and means are not provided in this section, as well as the head, tail, fins, and viscera of legally taken subsistence fish.

(20) The taking of fish from waters within Federal jurisdiction is authorized outside of published open seasons or harvest limits if the harvested fish will be used for food in traditional or religious ceremonies that are part of funerary or mortuary cycles, including memorial potlatches, provided that:

(i) Prior to attempting to take fish, the person (or designee) or Tribal Government organizing the ceremony contacts the appropriate Federal fisheries manager to provide the nature of the ceremony, the parties and/or clans involved, the species and the number of fish to be taken, and the Federal waters from which the harvest will occur;

(ii) The taking does not violate recognized principles of fisheries conservation, and uses the methods and means allowable for the particular species published in the applicable Federal regulations (the Federal fisheries manager will establish the number, species, or place of taking if necessary for conservation purposes);

(iii) Each person who takes fish under this section must, as soon as practical, and not more than 15 days after the harvest, submit a written report to the appropriate Federal fisheries manager, specifying the harvester's name and address, the number and species of fish taken, and the date and locations of the taking; and

(iv) No permit is required for taking under this section; however, the harvester must be eligible to harvest the resource under Federal regulations.
