
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Norton Sound-Port Clarence Area.

(2)The Norton Sound-Port Clarence Area includes all waters of Alaska between the latitude of the westernmost tip of Cape Prince of Wales and the latitude of Point Romanof, including those waters of Alaska surrounding St. Lawrence Island and those waters draining into the Bering Sea.

(i) Unless otherwise restricted in this section, you may take fish at any time in the Port Clarence District.

(ii) In the Norton Sound District, you may take fish at any time except as follows:

(A) In Subdistricts 2 through 6, if you are a commercial fishermen, you may not fish for subsistence purposes during the weekly closures of the State commercial salmon fishing season, except that from July 15 through August 1, you may take salmon for subsistence purposes 7 days per week in the Unalakleet and Shaktoolik River drainages with gillnets which have a stretched-mesh size that does not exceed 4inches, and with beach seines;

(B) In the Unalakleet River from June 1 through July 15, you may take salmon only from 8:00 a.m. Monday until 8:00 p.m. Saturday.

(C) Federal public waters of the Unalakleet River, upstream from the mouth of the Chirosky River, are closed to the taking of Chinook salmon from July 1 to July 31, by all users. The BLM field manager is authorized to open the closed area to Federally qualified subsistence users or to all users when run strength warrants.

(iii) You may take salmon only by gillnets, beach seines, fish wheel, or a rod and reel.

(iv) You may take fish other than salmon by set gillnet, drift gillnet, beach seine, fish wheel, pot, long line, fyke net, jigging gear, spear, lead, or a rod and reel.

(v) In the Unalakleet River from June 1 through July 15, you may not operate more than 25 fathoms of gillnet in the aggregate nor may you operate an unanchored gillnet.
