
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Yukon-Northern Area.

(3)The Yukon-Northern Area includes all waters of Alaska between the latitude of Point Romanof and the latitude of the westernmost point of the Naskonat Peninsula, including those waters draining into the Bering Sea, and all waters of Alaska north of the latitude of the westernmost tip of Point Hope and west of 141&#xB0; West longitude, including those waters draining into the Arctic Ocean and the Chukchi Sea.

(i) Unless otherwise restricted in this section, you may take fish in the Yukon-Northern Area at any time. In those locations where subsistence fishing permits are required, only one subsistence fishing permit will be issued to each household per year. You may subsistence fish for salmon with rod and reel in the Yukon River drainage 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, unless rod and reel are specifically otherwise restricted in this paragraph (e)(3).

(ii) For the Yukon River drainage, Federal subsistence fishing schedules, openings, closings, and fishing methods are the same as those issued for the subsistence taking of fish under Alaska Statutes (AS 16.05.060), unless superseded by a Federal special action.

(iii) In the following locations, you may take salmon during the open weekly fishing periods of the State commercial salmon fishing season and may not take them for 24 hours before the opening of the State commercial salmon fishing season:

(A) In District 4, excluding the Koyukuk River drainage;

(B) In Subdistricts 4B and 4C from June 15 through September 30, salmon may be taken from 6 p.m. Sunday until 6 p.m. Tuesday and from 6 p.m. Wednesday until 6 p.m. Friday;

(C) In District 6, excluding the Kantishna River drainage, salmon may be taken from 6 p.m. Friday until 6 p.m. Wednesday.

(iv) During any State commercial salmon fishing season closure of greater than 5 days in duration, you may not take salmon during the following periods in the following districts:

(A) In District 4, excluding the Koyukuk River drainage, salmon may not be taken from 6 p.m. Friday until 6 p.m. Sunday;

(B) In District 5, excluding the Tozitna River drainage and Subdistrict 5D, salmon may not be taken from 6 p.m. Sunday until 6 p.m. Tuesday.

(v) Except as provided in this section, and except as may be provided by the terms of a subsistence fishing permit, you may take fish other than salmon at any time.

(vi) In Districts 1, 2, 3, and Subdistrict 4A, excluding the Koyukuk and Innoko River drainages, you may not take salmon for subsistence purposes during the 24 hours immediately before the opening of the State commercial salmon fishing season.

(vii) In Districts 1, 2, and 3:

(A) After the opening of the State commercial salmon fishing season through July 15, you may not take salmon for subsistence for 18 hours immediately before, during, and for 12 hours after each State commercial salmon fishing period;

(B) After July 15, you may not take salmon for subsistence for 12 hours immediately before, during, and for 12 hours after each State commercial salmon fishing period.

(viii) In Subdistrict 4A after the opening of the State commercial salmon fishing season, you may not take salmon for subsistence for 12 hours immediately before, during, and for 12 hours after each State commercial salmon fishing period; however, you may take Chinook salmon during the State commercial fishing season, with drift gillnet gear only, from 6 p.m. Sunday until 6 p.m. Tuesday and from 6 p.m. Wednesday until 6 p.m. Friday.

(ix) You may not subsistence fish in the following drainages located north of the main Yukon River:

(A) Kanuti River upstream from a point 5 miles downstream of the State highway crossing;

(B) Bonanza Creek;

(C) Jim River including Prospect and Douglas Creeks.

(x) You may not subsistence fish in the Delta River.

(xi) In Beaver Creek downstream from the confluence of Moose Creek, a gillnet with mesh size not to exceed 3-inches stretch-measure may be used from June 15 through September 15. You may subsistence fish for all non-salmon species but may not target salmon during this time period (retention of salmon taken incidentally to non-salmon directed fisheries is allowed). From the mouth of Nome Creek downstream to the confluence of Moose Creek, only rod and reel may be used. From the mouth of Nome Creek downstream to the confluence of O'Brien Creek, the daily harvest and possession limit is 5 grayling; from the mouth of O'Brien Creek downstream to the confluence of Moose Creek, the daily harvest and possession limit is 10 grayling. The Nome Creek drainage of Beaver Creek is closed to subsistence fishing for grayling.

(xii) You may take salmon only by gillnet, beach seine, dip net, fish wheel, or rod and reel, subject to the restrictions set forth in this section.

(A) In the Yukon River drainage, you may not take salmon for subsistence fishing using gillnets with stretched mesh larger than 7.5 inches.

(B) In Subdistrict 5D you may take salmon once the mid-range of the Canadian interim management escapement goal and the total allowable catch goal are projected to be achieved.

(C) Salmon may be harvested by dip net at any time, except during times of conservation when the Federal in-season manager may announce restrictions on time, areas, and species.

(xiii) In District 4, if you are a commercial fisherman, you may not take salmon for subsistence purposes during the State commercial salmon fishing season using gillnets with stretched-mesh larger than 6 inches after a date specified by ADF&G emergency order issued between July 10 and July 31.

(xiv) In Districts 5 and 6, you may not take salmon for subsistence purposes by drift gillnets.

(xv) In District 4 salmon may be taken by drift gillnet not more than 150 feet in length unless restricted by special action or as modified by regulations in this section.

(xvi) Unless otherwise specified in this section, you may take fish other than salmon by set gillnet, drift gillnet, beach seine, fish wheel, long line, fyke net, dip net, jigging gear, spear, lead, or rod and reel, subject to the following restrictions, which also apply to subsistence salmon fishing:

(A) During the open weekly fishing periods of the State commercial salmon fishing season, if you are a commercial fisherman, you may not operate more than one type of gear at a time, for commercial, personal use, and subsistence purposes.

(B) You may not use an aggregate length of set gillnet in excess of 150 fathoms, and each drift gillnet may not exceed 50 fathoms in length.

(C) In Districts 4, 5, and 6, you may not set subsistence fishing gear within 200 feet of other fishing gear operating for commercial, personal, or subsistence use except that, at the site approximately 1 mile upstream from Ruby on the south bank of the Yukon River between ADF&G regulatory markers containing the area known locally as the "Slide," you may set subsistence fishing gear within 200 feet of other operating commercial or subsistence fishing gear, and in District 4, from Old Paradise Village upstream to a point 4 miles upstream from Anvik, there is no minimum distance requirement between fish wheels.

(D) During the State commercial salmon fishing season, within the Yukon River and the Tanana River below the confluence of the Wood River, you may use drift gillnets and fish wheels only during open subsistence salmon fishing periods.

(E) In Birch Creek, gillnet mesh size may not exceed 3-inches stretch-measure from June 15 through September 15.

(F) In Racetrack Slough on the Koyukuk River and in the sloughs of the Huslia River drainage, from when each river is free of ice through June 15, the offshore end of the set gillnet may not be closer than 20 feet from the opposite bank except that sloughs 40 feet or less in width may havewidth coverage with set gillnet, unless closed by Federal special action.

(xvii) In District 4, from September 21 through May 15, you may use jigging gear from shore ice.

(xviii) You must possess a subsistence fishing permit for the following locations:

(A) For the Yukon River drainage from the mouth of Hess Creek to the mouth of the Dall River;

(B) For the Yukon River drainage from the upstream mouth of 22 Mile Slough to the U.S.-Canada border;

(C) Only for salmon in the Tanana River drainage above the mouth of the Wood River.

(xix) Only one subsistence fishing permit will be issued to each household per year.

(xx) In Districts 1, 2, and 3, from June 1 through July 15. If ADF&G has announced that Chinook salmon can be sold in the commercial fisheries, you may not possess Chinook salmon taken for subsistence purposes unless both tips (lobes) of the tail fin have been removed before the person conceals the salmon from plain view or transfers the salmon from the fishing site.

(xxi) In the Yukon River drainage, Chinook salmon must be used primarily for human consumption and may not be targeted for dog food. Dried Chinook salmon may not be used for dog food anywhere in the Yukon River drainage. Whole fish unfit for human consumption (due to disease, deterioration, and deformities), scraps, and small fish (16 inches or less) may be fed to dogs. Also, whole Chinook salmon caught incidentally during a subsistence chum salmon fishery in the following time periods and locations may be fed to dogs:

(A) After July 10 in the Koyukuk River drainage;

(B) After August 10, in Subdistrict 5D, upstream of Circle City.
