
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Kuskokwim Area.

(4)The Kuskokwim Area consists of all waters of Alaska between the latitude of the westernmost point of Naskonat Peninsula and the latitude of the southernmost tip of Cape Newenham, including the waters of Alaska surrounding Nunivak and St. Matthew Islands and those waters draining into the Bering Sea.

(i) Unless otherwise restricted in this section, you may take fish in the Kuskokwim Area at any time without a subsistence fishing permit.

(ii) For the Kuskokwim area, Federal subsistence fishing schedules, openings, closings, and fishing methods are the same as those issued for the subsistence taking of fish under Alaska Statutes (AS 16.05.060), except the use of gillnets with 6-inch or less mesh size is allowed before June 1 in the Kuskokwim River drainage, unless superseded by a Federal special action.

(iii) In Districts 4 and 5, from June 1 through September 8, you may not take salmon for 16 hours before or during and for 6 hours after each State open commercial salmon fishing period in each district.

(iv) In District 2, and anywhere in tributaries that flow into the Kuskokwim River within that district, you may subsistence fish for salmon with rod and reel 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, unless rod and reel are specifically restricted by this paragraph (e)(4).

(v) You may not take subsistence fish by nets in the Goodnews River east of a line between ADF&G regulatory markers placed near the mouth of the Ufigag River and an ADF&G regulatory marker placed near the mouth of the Tunulik River 16 hours before or during and for 6 hours after each State open commercial salmon fishing period.

(vi) You may not take subsistence fish by nets in the Kanektok River upstream of ADF&G regulatory markers placed near the mouth 16 hours before or during and for 6 hours after each State open commercial salmon fishing period.

(vii) You may not take subsistence fish by nets in the Arolik River upstream of ADF&G regulatory markers placed near the mouth 16 hours before or during and for 6 hours after each State open commercial salmon fishing period.

(viii) You may only take salmon by gillnet, beach seine, fish wheel, dip net, or rod and reel subject to the restrictions set out in this section, except that you may also take salmon by spear in the Kanektok, and Arolik River drainages, and in the drainage of Goodnews Bay.

(ix) You may not use an aggregate length of set gillnets or drift gillnets in excess of 50 fathoms for taking salmon.

(x) You may take fish other than salmon by set gillnet, drift gillnet, beach seine, fish wheel, pot, long line, fyke net, dip net, jigging gear, spear, lead, handline, or rod and reel.

(xi) You must attach to the bank each subsistence set gillnet operated in tributaries of the Kuskokwim River and fish it substantially perpendicular to the bank and in a substantially straight line.

(xii) Within a tributary to the Kuskokwim River in that portion of the Kuskokwim River drainage from the north end of Eek Island upstream to the mouth of the Kolmakoff River, you may not set or operate any part of a set gillnet within 150 feet of any part of another set gillnet.

(xiii) The maximum depth of gillnets is as follows:

(A) Gillnets with 6-inch or smaller stretched-mesh may not be more than 45 meshes in depth;

(B) Gillnets with greater than 6-inch stretched-mesh may not be more than 35 meshes in depth.

(xiv) You may not use subsistence set and drift gillnets exceeding 15 fathoms in length in Whitefish Lake in the Ophir Creek drainage. You may not operate more than one subsistence set or drift gillnet at a time in Whitefish Lake in the Ophir Creek drainage. You must check the net at least once every 24 hours.

(xv) You may take rainbow trout only in accordance with the following restrictions:

(A) You may take rainbow trout only by the use of gillnets, dip nets, fyke nets, handline, spear, rod and reel, or jigging through the ice;

(B) You may not use gillnets, dip nets, or fyke nets for targeting rainbow trout from March 15 through June 15;

(C) If you take rainbow trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries and through the ice, you may retain them for subsistence purposes;

(D) There are no harvest limits with handline, spear, rod and reel, or jigging.

(xvi) All tributaries not expressly closed by Federal special action, or as modified by regulations in this section, remain open to the use of gillnets more than 100 yards upstream from their confluence with the Kuskokwim River.
