
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### 3

() All materials used to construct the fyke net and lead must be made of wood and be removed from the water when the fyke net and lead is no longer in use.

(v) The maximum lengths for set gillnets used to take salmon are as follows:

(A) You may not use set gillnets exceeding 10 fathoms in length in the Egegik River;

(B) In the remaining waters of the area, you may not use set gillnets exceeding 25 fathoms in length.

(vi) You may not operate any part of a set gillnet within 300 feet of any part of another set gillnet.

(vii) You must stake and buoy each set gillnet. Instead of having the identifying information on a keg or buoy attached to the gillnet, you may plainly and legibly inscribe your first initial, last name, and subsistence permit number on a sign at or near the set gillnet.

(viii) You may not operate or assist in operating subsistence salmon net gear while simultaneously operating or assisting in operating commercial salmon net gear.

(ix) You may take fish other than salmon, herring, and capelin by gear listed in this part unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(x) You may take salmon only under authority of a State subsistence salmon permit (permits are issued by ADF&G) except when using a Federal permit for fyke net and lead.

(xi) Only one State subsistence fishing permit for salmon and one Federal permit for use of a fyke net and lead for all fish (except rainbow trout) may be issued to each household per year.

(xii) In the Togiak River drainage:

(A) You may not possess coho salmon taken under the authority of a subsistence fishing permit unless both lobes of the caudal fin (tail) or the dorsal fin have been removed.

(B) You may not possess salmon taken with a drift gillnet under the authority of a subsistence fishing permit unless both lobes of the caudal fin (tail) or the dorsal fin have been removed.

(xiii) You may take rainbow trout only by rod and reel or jigging gear. Rainbow trout daily harvest and possession limits are two per day/two in possession with no size limit from April 10 through October 31 and five per day/five in possession with no size limit from November 1 through April 9.

(xiv) If you take rainbow trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries, or through the ice, you may retain them for subsistence purposes.
