
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Aleutian Islands Area.

(6)The Aleutian Islands Area includes all waters of Alaska west of the longitude of the tip of Cape Sarichef, east of 172&#xB0; East longitude, and south of 54&#xB0;36&#x2032; North latitude.

(i) You may take fish other than salmon, rainbow/steelhead trout, or char at any time unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit. If you take rainbow/steelhead trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries, you may retain them for subsistence purposes.

(ii) In the Unalaska District, you may take salmon for subsistence purposes from 6:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. from January 1 through December 31, except as may be specified on a subsistence fishing permit.

(iii) In the Adak, Akutan, Atka-Amlia, and Umnak Districts, you may take salmon at any time.

(iv) You may not subsistence fish for salmon in the following waters:

(A) The waters of Unalaska Lake, its tributaries and outlet stream;

(B) The waters of Summers and Morris Lakes and their tributaries and outlet streams;

(C) All streams supporting anadromous fish runs that flow into Unalaska Bay south of a line from the northern tip of Cape Cheerful to the northern tip of Kalekta Point;

(D) Waters of McLees Lake and its tributaries and outlet stream;

(E) All fresh water on Adak Island and Kagalaska Island in the Adak District.

(v) You may take salmon by seine and gillnet, or with gear specified on a subsistence fishing permit.

(vi) In the Unalaska District, if you fish with a net, you must be physically present at the net at all times when the net is being used.

(vii) You may take fish other than salmon by gear listed in this part unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(viii) You may take salmon, trout, and char only under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit, except that you do not need a permit in the Akutan, Umnak, and Atka-Amlia Islands Districts.

(ix) You may take no more than 250 salmon for subsistence purposes unless otherwise specified on the subsistence fishing permit, except that in the Unalaska and Adak Districts, you may take no more than 25 salmon plus an additional 25 salmon for each member of your household listed on the permit. You may obtain an additional permit.

(x) You must keep a record on the reverse side of the permit of subsistence-caught fish. You must complete the record immediately upon taking subsistence-caught fish and must return it no later than October 31.
