
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Chignik Area.

(8)The Chignik Area includes all waters of Alaska on the south side of the Alaska Peninsula bounded by a line extending 135&#xB0; southeast for 3 miles from a point near Kilokak Rocks at 57&#xB0;10.34&#x2032; North latitude, 156&#xB0;20.22&#x2032; West longitude (the longitude of the southern entrance to Imuya Bay) then due south, and a line extending 135&#xB0; southeast from Kupreanof Point at 55&#xB0;33.98&#x2032; North latitude, 159&#xB0;35.88&#x2032; West longitude.

(i) You may take fish other than salmon, rainbow/steelhead trout, or char at any time, except as may be specified by a subsistence fishing permit. For salmon, Federal subsistence fishing openings, closings and fishing methods are the same as those issued for the subsistence taking of fish under Alaska Statutes (AS 16.05.060), unless superseded by a Federal Special Action. Within the Chignik Area, depending upon the area that you may fish, in addition to a State subsistence fishing permit, you may be required to also have a Federal subsistence permit.

If you take rainbow/steelhead trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries, you may retain them for subsistence purposes.

(ii) You may take salmon in the Chignik River, with rod and reel, from a point 300 feet upstream of the ADF&G weir to Chignik Lake from January 1 through August 9, with no daily harvest or possession limit under the authority of a Federal subsistence fishing permit. You may take salmon by gillnet in Black Lake or any tributary to Black or Chignik Lakes with a Federal subsistence fishing permit. You may take salmon in the waters of Clark River and Home Creek from their confluence with Chignik Lake upstream 1 mile. In the open waters of Clark River and Home Creek you may take salmon by snagging (handline or rod and reel), spear, bow and arrow, or capture by hand without a permit. The daily harvest and possession limits using these methods are five per day and five in possession.

(iii) You may take salmon, trout, and char only under the authority of a subsistence fishing permit unless otherwise indicated in this section or as noted in the permit conditions.

(iv) You must keep a record on your permit of subsistence-caught fish. You must complete the record immediately upon taking subsistence-caught fish and must return it no later than the due date listed on the permit.

(v) If you hold a commercial fishing license, you may only subsistence fish for salmon as specified on a subsistence fishing permit.

(vi) You may take salmon by seines, gillnets, rod and reel, or with gear specified on a subsistence fishing permit, except that in Chignik Lake, you may not use purse seines. You may also take salmon without a permit by snagging (by handline or rod and reel), using a spear, bow and arrow, or capturing by bare hand.

(vii) You may take fish other than salmon by gear listed in this part unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(viii) You may take no more than 250 salmon for subsistence purposes unless otherwise specified on the subsistence fishing permit.
