
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.40 Special rules - mammals.
####### Exceptions from prohibitions.

(2)In regard to the Coastal DPS of the Pacific marten ("coastal marten"), you may:

(i) Conduct activities as authorized by a permit under ยง 17.32.

(ii) Take as set forth at ยง 17.21(c)(2) through (c)(4) for endangered wildlife.

(iii) Take as set forth at ยง 17.31(b).

(iv) Conduct forest management activities for the purposes of reducing the risk or severity of wildfire, which include fuels reduction projects, firebreaks, and wildfire firefighting activities. More specifically, forest management practices such as those that treat vertical and horizontal (ladder) fuels in an effort to reduce continuity between understory and the overstory vegetation and the potential for crown fires, remove fuels within 150 feet of legally permitted structures and within 300 feet of habitable structures, or implement Fuelbreak/Defensible Space Prescriptions that allow for removal of trees or other vegetation to create a shaded fuelbreak along roads or other natural features, or create defensible space.

(v) Conduct forestry management activities included in a plan or agreement for lands covered by a Natural Communities Conservation Plan or State Safe Harbor Agreement that addresses and authorizes State take of coastal marten as a covered species and is approved by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife under the authority of the California Endangered Species Act.

(vi) Conduct forestry management activities consistent with the conservation needs of the coastal marten (e.g., activities that promote, retain, or restore suitable coastal marten habitat that increase percent canopy cover, percent ericaceous shrub cover, and denning and resting structures). These include activities consistent with finalized conservation plans or strategies, such as plans and documents that include coastal marten conservation prescriptions or compliance, and for which the Service has determined that meeting such plans or strategies, or portions thereof, would be consistent with conservation strategies for coastal marten.

(vii) Conduct activities to remove toxicants and other chemicals consistent with conservation strategies for coastal marten. Such activities include management or cleanup activities that remove toxicants and other chemicals from forested areas, for which the Service has determined that such activities to remove toxicants and other chemicals would be consistent with conservation strategies for coastal marten. Cleanup of these sites may involve activities that may cause localized, short-term disturbance to coastal martens, as well as require limited removal of some habitat structures valuable to coastal martens (e.g., hazard trees that may be a suitable den site).
