
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
####### Oncorhyncus mykiss

(iii) In the Southeastern Alaska Area, a rainbow trout is defined as a fish of the speciesless than 22 inches in overall length. A steelhead is defined as a rainbow trout with an overall length of 22 inches or larger.

(iv) In areas where use of rod and reel is allowed, you may use artificial fly, lure, or bait when fishing with rod and reel, unless restricted by Federal permit. If you use bait, you must retain all federally regulated fish species caught, and they apply to your applicable daily, seasonal, and annual harvest limits for that species.

(A) For streams with steelhead, once your daily, seasonal, or annual limit of steelhead is harvested, you may no longer fish with bait for any species.

(B) Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph (e)(13), allowable gear for salmon or steelhead is restricted to gaffs, spears, gillnets, seines, dip nets, cast nets, handlines, or rod and reel.

(v) Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph (e)(13), you may use a handline for snagging salmon or steelhead.

(vi) You may fish with a rod and reel within 300 feet of a fish ladder unless the site is otherwise posted by the USDA Forest Service. You may not fish from, on, or in a fish ladder.

(vii) You may not accumulate Federal subsistence harvest limits authorized for the Southeastern Alaska Area with any harvest limits authorized under any State of Alaska fishery with the following exception: Annual or seasonal Federal subsistence harvest limits may be accumulated with State sport fishing harvest limits provided that accumulation of harvest limits does not occur during the same day.

(viii) If you take salmon, trout, or char incidentally with gear operated under terms of a subsistence permit for other salmon, they may be kept for subsistence purposes. You must report any salmon, trout, or char taken in this manner on your subsistence fishing permit.

(ix) Nets are prohibited in streams flowing across or adjacent to the roads on Wrangell and Mitkof islands, and in streams flowing across or adjacent to the road systems connected to the community of Sitka.

(x) You may not possess subsistence-taken and sport-taken fish of a given species on the same day.

(xi) If a harvest limit is not otherwise listed for sockeye in this paragraph (e)(13), the harvest limit for sockeye salmon is the same as provided for in adjacent State subsistence or personal use fisheries. If a harvest limit is not established for the State subsistence or personal use fisheries, the possession limit is 10 sockeye and the annual harvest limit is 20 sockeye per household for that stream.

(xii) The Sarkar River system above the bridge is closed to the use of all nets by both federally qualified and non-federally qualified users.

(xiii) You may take Chinook, sockeye, and coho salmon in the mainstem of the Stikine River only under the authority of a Federal subsistence fishing permit. Each Stikine River permit will be issued to a household. Only dip nets, spears, gaffs, rod and reel, beach seine, or gillnets not exceeding 15 fathoms in length may be used. The maximum gillnet stretched mesh size is 8 inches during the Chinook salmon season and 5inches during the sockeye salmon season. There is no maximum mesh size during the coho salmon season.

(A) You may take Chinook salmon from May 15 through June 20. The annual limit is five Chinook salmon per household.

(B) You may take sockeye salmon from June 21 through July 31. The annual limit is 40 sockeye salmon per household.

(C) You may take coho salmon from August 1 through October 1. The annual limit is 20 coho salmon per household.

(D) You may retain other salmon taken incidentally by gear operated under terms of this permit. The incidentally taken salmon must be reported on your permit calendar.

(E) Fishing nets must be checked at least twice each day.

(xiv) You may take coho salmon with a Federal salmon fishing permit. There is no closed season. The daily harvest limit is 20 coho salmon per household. Only dip nets, spears, gaffs, handlines, and rod and reel may be used. There are specific rules to harvest any salmon on the Stikine River, and you must have a separate Stikine River subsistence salmon fishing permit to take salmon on the Stikine River.

(xv) Unless noted on a Federal subsistence harvest permit, there are no harvest limits for pink or chum salmon.

(xvi) Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph (e)(13), you may take steelhead under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit. The open season is January 1 through May 31. The daily household harvest and possession limit is one with an annual household limit of two. You may only use a dip net, gaff, handline, spear, or rod and reel. The permit conditions and systems to receive special protection will be determined by the local Federal fisheries manager in consultation with ADF&G.

(xvii) You may take steelhead trout on Prince of Wales and Kosciusko Islands under the terms of Federal subsistence fishing permits. You must obtain a separate permit for the winter and spring seasons.

(A) The winter season is December 1 through the last day of February, with a harvest limit of two fish per household; however, only one steelhead may be harvested by a household from a particular drainage. You may use only a dip net, handline, spear, or rod and reel. You must return your winter season permit within 15 days of the close of the season and before receiving another permit for a Prince of Wales/Kosciusko steelhead subsistence fishery. The permit conditions and systems to receive special protection will be determined by the local Federal fisheries manager in consultation with ADF&G.

(B) The spring season is March 1 through May 31, with a harvest limit of five fish per household; however, only two steelhead may be harvested by a household from a particular drainage. You may use only a dip net, handline, spear, or rod and reel. You must return your spring season permit within 15 days of the close of the season and before receiving another permit for a Prince of Wales/Kosciusko steelhead subsistence fishery. The permit conditions and systems to receive special protection will be determined by the local Federal fisheries manager in consultation with ADF&G.

(xviii) In addition to the requirement for a Federal subsistence fishing permit, the following restrictions for the harvest of Dolly Varden, brook trout, grayling, cutthroat trout, and rainbow trout apply:

(A) The daily household harvest and possession limit is 20 Dolly Varden; there is no closed season or size limit.

(B) The daily household harvest and possession limit is 20 brook trout; there is no closed season or size limit.

(C) The daily household harvest and possession limit is 20 grayling; there is no closed season or size limit.

(D) The daily household harvest limit is 6 and the household possession limit is 12 cutthroat or rainbow trout in combination; there is no closed season or size limit.

(E) You may only use a rod and reel.

(F) The permit conditions and systems to receive special protection will be determined by the local Federal fisheries manager in consultation with ADF&G.

(xix) There is no subsistence fishery for any salmon on the Taku River.

(xx) The Klawock River drainage is closed to the use of seines and gillnets during July and August.

(xxi) The Federal public waters in the Makhnati Island area, as defined in ยง 100.3(b)(5) are closed to the harvest of herring and herring spawn, except by federally qualified users.

(xxii) Only federally qualified subsistence users may harvest sockeye salmon in Neva Lake, Neva Creek, and South Creek.
