
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.28 Subsistence taking of shellfish.
####### Methods, means, and general restrictions.

(b)(1) The harvest limit specified in this section for a subsistence season for a species and the State harvest limit set for a State season for the same species are not cumulative. This means that if you have taken the harvest limit for a particular species under a subsistence season specified in this section, you may not, after that, take any additional shellfish of that species under any other harvest limit specified for a State season.

(2) Unless otherwise provided in this section or under terms of a required subsistence fishing permit (as may be modified by this section), you may use the following legal types of gear to take shellfish:

(i) Abalone iron;

(ii) Diving gear;

(iii) A grappling hook;

(iv) A handline;

(v) A hydraulic clam digger;

(vi) A mechanical clam digger;

(vii) A pot;

(viii) A ring net;

(ix) A scallop dredge;

(x) A sea urchin rake;

(xi) A shovel; and

(xii) A trawl.

(3) You are prohibited from buying or selling subsistence-taken shellfish, their parts, or their eggs, unless otherwise specified.

(4) You may not use explosives and chemicals, except that you may use chemical baits or lures to attract shellfish.

(5) Marking requirements for subsistence shellfish gear are as follows:

(i) You must plainly and legibly inscribe your first initial, last name, and address on a keg or buoy attached to unattended subsistence fishing gear, except when fishing through the ice, when you may substitute for the keg or buoy a stake inscribed with your first initial, last name, and address inserted in the ice near the hole; subsistence fishing gear may not display a permanent ADF&G vessel license number;

(ii) Kegs or buoys attached to subsistence crab pots also must be inscribed with the name or United States Coast Guard number of the vessel used to operate the pots.

(6) Pots used for subsistence fishing must comply with the escape mechanism requirements found in ยง 100.27(b)(2).

(7) You may not mutilate or otherwise disfigure a crab in any manner which would prevent determination of the minimum size restrictions until the crab has been processed or prepared for consumption.
