
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - National Wildlife Monuments
#### PART 100 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
##### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
###### ยง 100.28 Subsistence taking of shellfish.
####### Taking shellfish by designated harvest permit.

(c)(1) Any species of shellfish that may be taken by subsistence fishing under this part may be taken under a designated harvest permit.

(2) If you are a Federally-qualified subsistence user (beneficiary), you may designate another Federally-qualified subsistence user to take shellfish on your behalf. The designated fisherman must obtain a designated harvest permit prior to attempting to harvest shellfish and must return a completed harvest report. The designated fisherman may harvest for any number of beneficiaries but may have no more than two harvest limits in his/her possession at any one time.

(3) The designated fisherman must have in possession a valid designated harvest permit when taking, attempting to take, or transporting shellfish taken under this section, on behalf of a beneficiary.

(4) You may not fish with more than one legal limit of gear as established by this section.

(5) You may not designate more than one person to take or attempt to take shellfish on your behalf at one time. You may not personally take or attempt to take shellfish at the same time that a designated fisherman is taking or attempting to take shellfish on your behalf.
