
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter I - United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Taking, Possession, Transportation, Sale, Purchase, Barter, Exportation, and Importation of Wildlife and Plants
#### PART 17 - ENDANGERED AND THREATENED WILDLIFE AND PLANTS
##### Subpart D - Threatened Wildlife
###### ยง 17.40 Special rules - mammals.
####### e.g.,

(B) Fire management actions (prescribed burns, hazardous fuel reduction activities) on protected/preserve lands to maintain, protect, or enhance habitat occupied by Stephens' kangaroo rat. These activities are to be coordinated with and reported to the Service in writing and approved the first time an individual or agency undertakes them.

(C) Maintenance of existing fuel breaks.

(D) Firefighting activities associated with actively burning wildfires to reduce risk to life or property.

(vii) Remove nonnative, invasive, or noxious plants for the purpose of Stephens' kangaroo rat conservation as approved by the Service. This includes noxious weed control and other vegetation reduction in the course of habitat management and restoration to benefit Stephens' kangaroo rat, including mechanical and chemical control, provided that these activities are conducted in a manner consistent with Federal and applicable State laws, including Environmental Protection Agency label restrictions for herbicide application.

(viii) Implement activities conducted as part of a plan developed in coordination with the Service or the California Department of Fish and Wildlife that are for the purpose of Stephens' kangaroo rat conservation.
