
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 216 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart C - General Exceptions
###### ยง 216.22 Taking by State or local government officials.

(a) A State or local government official or employee may take a marine mammal in the normal course of his duties as an official or employee, and no permit shall be required, if such taking:

(1) Is accomplished in a humane manner;

(2) Is for the protection or welfare of such mammal or for the protection of the public health or welfare; and

(3) Includes steps designed to insure return of such mammal, if not killed in the course of such taking, to its natural habitat. In addition, any such official or employee may, incidental to such taking, possess and transport, but not sell or offer for sale, such mammal and use any port, harbor, or other place under the jurisdiction of the United States. All steps reasonably practicable under the circumstances shall be taken by any such employee or official to prevent injury or death to the marine mammal as the result of such taking. Where the marine mammal in question is injured or sick, it shall be permissible to place it in temporary captivity until such time as it is able to be returned to its natural habitat. It shall be permissible to dispose of a carcass of a marine mammal taken in accordance with this subsection whether the animal is dead at the time of taking or dies subsequent thereto.

(b) Each taking permitted under this section shall be included in a written report to be submitted to the Secretary every six months beginning December 31, 1973. Unless otherwise permitted by the Secretary, the report shall contain a description of:

(1) The animal involved;

(2) The circumstances requiring the taking;

(3) The method of taking;

(4) The name and official position of the State official or employee involved;

(5) The disposition of the animal, including in cases where the animal has been retained in captivity, a description of the place and means of confinement and the measures taken for its maintenance and care; and

(6) Such other information as the Secretary may require.

(c) Salvage of dead stranded marine mammals or parts therefrom and subsequent transfer.
