
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 216 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Special Exceptions
###### ยง 216.33 Permit application submission, review, and decision procedures.
####### Notice of receipt and application review.

(d)(1) Upon receipt of a valid, complete application, and the preparation of any NEPA documentation that has been determined initially to be required, the Office Director will publish a notice of receipt in theThe notice will:

(i) Summarize the application, including:

(A) The purpose of the request;

(B) The species and number of marine mammals;

(C) The type and manner of special exception activity proposed;

(D) The location(s) in which the marine mammals will be taken, from which they will be imported, or to which they will be exported; and

(E) The requested period of the permit.

(ii) List where the application is available for review.

(iii) Invite interested parties to submit written comments concerning the application within 30 days of the date of the notice.

(iv) Include a NEPA statement that an initial determination has been made that the activity proposed is categorically excluded from the requirement to prepare an EA or EIS, that an EA was prepared resulting in a finding of no significant impact, or that a final EIS has been prepared and is available for review.

(2) The Office Director will forward a copy of the complete application to the Commission for comment. If no comments are received within 45 days (or such longer time as the Office Director may establish) the Office Director will consider the Commission to have no objection to issuing a permit.

(3) The Office Director may consult with any other person, institution, or agency concerning the application.

(4) Within 30 days of publication of the notice of receipt in theany interested party may submit written comments or may request a public hearing on the application.

(5) If the Office Director deems it advisable, the Office Director may hold a public hearing within 60 days of publication of the notice of receipt in theNotice of the date, time, and place of the public hearing will be published in thenot less than 15 days in advance of the public hearing. Any interested person may appear in person or through representatives and may submit any relevant material, data, views, or comments. A summary record of the hearing will be kept.

(6) The Office Director may extend the period during which any interested party may submit written comments. Notice of the extension must be published in thewithin 60 days of publication of the notice of receipt in the

(7) If, after publishing a notice of receipt, the Office Director determines on the basis of new information that an EA or EIS must be prepared, the Office Director must deny the permit unless an EA is prepared with a finding of no significant impact. If a permit is denied under these circumstances the application may be resubmitted with information sufficient to prepare an EA or EIS, and will be processed as a new application.
