
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 216 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Special Exceptions
###### § 216.33 Permit application submission, review, and decision procedures.
####### Issuance or denial procedures.

(e)(1) Within 30 days of the close of the public hearing or, if no public hearing is held, within 30 days of the close of the public comment period, the Office Director will issue or deny a special exception permit.

(2) The decision to issue or deny a permit will be based upon:

(i) All relevant issuance criteria set forth at § 216.34;

(ii) All purpose-specific issuance criteria as appropriate set forth at § 216.41, § 216.42, and § 216.43;

(iii) All comments received or views solicited on the permit application; and

(iv) Any other information or data that the Office Director deems relevant.

(3) If the permit is issued, upon receipt, the holder must date and sign the permit, and return a copy of the original to the Office Director. The permit shall be effective upon the permit holder's signing of the permit. In signing the permit, the holder:

(i) Agrees to abide by all terms and conditions set forth in the permit, and all restrictions and relevant regulations under this subpart; and

(ii) Acknowledges that the authority to conduct certain activities specified in the permit is conditional and subject to authorization by the Office Director.

(4) Notice of the decision of the Office Director shall be published in thewithin 10 days after the date of permit issuance or denial and shall indicate where copies of the permit, if issued, may be reviewed or obtained. If the permit issued involves marine mammals listed as endangered or threatened under the ESA, the notice shall include a finding by the Office Director that the permit:

(i) Was applied for in good faith;

(ii) If exercised, will not operate to the disadvantage of such endangered or threatened species; and

(iii) Is consistent with the purposes and policy set forth in section 2 of the ESA.

(5) If the permit is denied, the Office Director shall provide the applicant with an explanation for the denial.

(6) Under the MMPA, the Office Director may issue a permit for scientific research before the end of the public comment period if delaying issuance could result in injury to a species, stock, or individual, or in loss of unique research opportunities. The Office Director also may waive the 30-day comment period required under the ESA in an emergency situation where the health or life of an endangered or threatened marine mammal is threatened and no reasonable alternative is available. If a permit is issued under these circumstances, notice of such issuance before the end of the comment period shall be published in thewithin 10 days of issuance.

(7) The applicant or any party opposed to a permit may seek judicial review of the terms and conditions of such permit or of a decision to deny such permit. Review may be obtained by filing a petition for review with the appropriate U.S. District Court as provided for by law.
