
# Title 50 - Wildlife and Fisheries
## Chapter II - National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter C - Marine Mammals
#### PART 216 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS
##### Subpart D - Special Exceptions
###### ยง 216.41 Permits for scientific research and enhancement.
####### Restrictions.

(c)(1) The following restrictions apply to all scientific research permits issued under this subpart:

(i) Research activities must be conducted in the manner authorized in the permit.

(ii) Research results shall be published or otherwise made available to the scientific community in a reasonable period of time.

(iii) Research activities must be conducted under the direct supervision of the principal investigator or a co-investigator identified in the permit.

(iv) Personnel involved in research activities shall be reasonable in number and limited to:

(A) Individuals who perform a function directly supportive of and necessary to the permitted research activity; and

(B) Support personnel included for the purpose of training or as backup personnel for persons described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A).

(v) Any marine mammal part imported under the authority of a scientific research permit must not have been obtained as the result of a lethal taking that would be inconsistent with the Acts, unless authorized by the Office Director.

(vi) Marine mammals held under a permit for scientific research shall not be placed on public display, included in an interactive program or activity, or trained for performance unless such activities:

(A) Are necessary to address scientific research objectives and have been specifically authorized by the Office Director under the scientific research permit; and

(B) Are conducted incidental to and do not in any way interfere with the permitted scientific research; and

(C) Are conducted in a manner consistent with provisions applicable to public display, unless exceptions are specifically authorized by the Office Director.

(vii) Any activity conducted incidental to the authorized scientific research activity must not involve any taking of marine mammals beyond what is necessary to conduct the research (i.e., educational and commercial photography).

(2) Any marine mammal or progeny held in captive maintenance under an enhancement permit shall be returned to its natural habitat as soon as feasible, consistent with the terms of the enhancement permit and the objectives of an approved conservation or recovery plan. In accordance with section 10(j) of the ESA, the Office Director may authorize the release of any population of an endangered or threatened species outside the current range of such species if the Office Director determines that such release will further the conservation of such species.
